APPLYING TO CMC

Admission to CMC is based on a holistic review process that considers a broad range of factors, including a prospective student’s academic and leadership achievements, commitment to CMC’s values, and potential to benefit from and contribute to CMC’s mission.

CMC accepts the
Common Application
, the
Coalition Application
, and the
Questbridge Application
, without preference for one over another. Students can only submit one application per admission cycle.

CMC is a member of the Common Application, a not-for-profit member organization of leading colleges and universities in the United States and around the world. The Common Application develops and hosts an application platform offered by more than 600 diverse colleges and universities around the world. Last year nearly 1 million students used the Common Application to apply to college.

• The Common Application saves students time by allowing students to fill out their information once and sharing it across all of their schools. Please note that CMC also requires applicants to complete a number of CMC-specific supplemental questions.
• Teachers and counselors will have a seamless way to manage documents and outstanding tasks for their students.
• Using the Common App, you will be able to manage your deadlines and view your application progress in one convenient dashboard.
The Common Application will be available by August 1. To create an account please visit
commonapp.org
.

CMC is a member of the Coalition for Access, Affordability, and Success, a new application platform offered by a diverse group of more than 130 public and private U.S. colleges and universities. Every Coalition institution provides need-based financial aid or low-cost in-state tuition, and has a six-year graduation rate of at least 70%. CMC’s six-year graduation rate is 93%. All Coalition private institutions, including CMC, meet 100% of demonstrated financial need for domestic and permanent resident admitted students.

• The Coalition Application allows students to enter personal information once that will populate the applicable sections of all their Coalition applications. Note that CMC also requires applicants to complete a number of CMC-specific supplemental questions.
• The Coalition Application provides a free set of tools and guidance resources for students, counselors, community-based organizations, teachers and other mentors who assist with the process of applying to college.
• The Coalition Application provides a private online space called the Locker, where students can collect and organize digital material that might help them prepare for their college search, preparation, and application process. Only students have access to their Locker – however, they can share individual items from it with counselors or mentors for feedback and guidance. Students can also choose to attach selected items from the Locker to individual college applications based on college preferences. College admissions officers will not see what a student stores in the Locker and will not have access to any materials in a student Locker other than those included with a college application.
Please note: Prospective students should not invite CMC admissions staff to collaborate on any items uploaded to the Locker, or invite them as a contact via the Coalition platform. Demonstrated interest is not a factor in CMC’s decision-making process.

The Coalition Application will be available by September 1. To create an account, visit
mycoalition.org
.

CMC is a partner with QuestBridge, a national non-profit program that links bright, motivated low-income students with educational and scholarship opportunities at some of the nation’s best colleges. Students who wish to apply to QuestBridge Partner Institutions using the QuestBridge National College Match application must first submit their application materials to QuestBridge and be selected as finalists in the QuestBridge National College Match. Students selected as finalists have the option to rank CMC and to be considered in the fall QuestBridge National College Match admissions process. Students who do not match with CMC during that process may choose to have their applications considered in the Early Decision II or Regular Decision admissions cycle at CMC.

The QuestBridge National College Match Application will be available this summer. To learn more visit
www.questbridge.org
.

Explore the Claremont Colleges