ART AND ART HISTORY

STUDY ART!

The mission of the CSUB Department of Art and Art History is to encourage research,
innovation, and experimentation. The Art and Gallery Program’s aim is to foster an
environment ripe for learning and risk-taking. Operating within both historical and
theoretical contexts, the students develop an individual approach to their chosen
artistic processes, materials and techniques. They become technically skilled, historically
conscious and conceptually engaged. A degree in Art serves as a lens for understanding
the larger world, offering students viable problem-solving skills that will serve
them well in any discipline.

A Bachelor of Art (B.A.) degree in Art gives students invaluable life-long skills
that will serve them well in any discipline. The study of art challenges students
to be curious and inventive and teaches them to try multiple ways to manifest their
ideas.

At CSUB, we offer a rigorous curriculum taught by an award-winning faculty comprised
of international artists and published art historians who encourage original, creative,
and well-researched thinking.

Students pursuing a Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) degree in Art may choose a concentration
in Studio Art, Art History, or Art Education. The Art Education concentration fulfills
most of the Waiver Requirements of the California Commission for Teacher Credentialing
(CTCC) for the Single Subject Program in Art.

The department also offers a minor in Studio Art or Art History, as well as an interdisciplinary
minor in Film and Modern Art.

EXPLORE ART AND ART HISTORY

Career Opportunities

CSUB Art alumni go on to successful careers as Museum Professionals, Animators, Architects,
Archivists, Art Directors, Art Historians, Art Critics, Art Teachers, Illustrators,
Gallery Directors, Conservators, Curators, Registrars, Set Designers, Photographers,
Cartoonists, Museum and Gallery Preparators, Web Designers, Art Fabricators, 3-D Model
Makers, Industrial Designers, and many more.

Our alumni have earned Ph.D. and M.F.A. degrees at distinguished institutions including
Claremont Graduate School, The School of the Art Institute in Chicago, Yale School
of Art, California College of the Arts, UCLA, and Oakland College of Arts.

Scholarships for Art Majors

• Mai-Lightner Arts and Humanities Scholarship Fund
• Merit Award Scholarship
• Dorian Society Scholarship
• Armand Hammer Scholarship in the Arts
• Fine Arts Merit Award Scholarship (FAMAS)
• Jesse Heivly Scholarship
• The “George” Award