BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (BS) IN ENGINEERING

Design, build, and lead solutions that improve our world by earning a Bachelor of
Science in Engineering from Azusa Pacific University.

Request Information

• Home
• >
• Programs
• >
• Bachelor of Science (BS) in Engineering

WHY MAJOR IN ENGINEERING AT APU?

Begin a transformational academic experience that equips you to lead across engineering
fields by earning a bachelor’s degree in engineering. From day one, hands-on labs,
real-world projects, and a career-focused curriculum build a strong foundation in
core engineering principles and instill the confidence to generate innovative solutions.

Accredited by the
Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET)
, APU’s engineering program upholds high academic standards and continuous improvement,
preparing you to meet and exceed industry expectations.

During the BS in Engineering program, you’ll

• customize your path and expertise with concentrations in mechanical, electrical, or
 computer engineering;
• strengthen your understanding through integrated lab experiences and collaborative
 group work tied to coursework;
• gain real-world experience and build a portfolio through internships aligned with
 your interests and career goals; and
• examine engineering decisions through a Christ-centered perspective that emphasizes
 purpose and impact.
Review Admission Requirements

PROGRAM AT A GLANCE

Integrate faith and Innovation as an engineering student at APU’s
School of Humanities and Sciences
. Through a rigorous, well-rounded academic experience, you’ll develop the skills
to face complex challenges with technical expertise and a commitment to making a meaningful
difference for Christ.

UPCOMING EVENTS

APU One Day

• Saturday, June 13, 2026
• Saturday, July 11, 2026

APPLICATION DEADLINE

At APU, we have rolling admissions. This means we accept and review applications continuously.

Apply Now

PROGRAM INFORMATION

• Program Units: 85-87

LOCATION

• Azusa (Main Campus)
Yellow Ribbon and Military Friendly School

WHAT YOU’LL LEARN

APU’s engineering curriculum accelerates your professional growth through rigorous,
hands-on coursework. Along with foundational classes in mathematics and physics, you’ll
build expertise in engineering subfields while advancing your knowledge of calculus,
differential equations, and probability.

In this program, you’ll develop the ability to

• apply engineering principles to design, test, and improve solutions that address real-world
 challenges;
• use advanced math, physics, and data-driven methods to analyze complex systems and
 guide decision making;
• develop computational models using techniques such as discretization, boundary conditions,
 optimization strategies, and model validation;
• communicate technical ideas clearly through presentations, reports, and accessible
 explanations; and
• collaborate with teams to plan, execute, and refine engineering projects from concept
 to completion.
You can customize your engineering degree by choosing a concentration in mechanical,
electrical, or computer engineering. Or you can follow a general engineering track
and broaden your expertise with a selection of technical electives, ranging from machine
learning to the Internet of Things (IoT) and more.

Review Degree Requirements

GET STARTED

ENGINEERING PROGRAM DETAILS

Ready to step into God’s calling for your life? Our BS in Engineering program equips
you with the technical foundation and mentorship needed to grow. At each stage of
your engineering education, you engage in coursework and hands-on learning that connect
theory to real-world applications, moving you closer to a future career with impact.

Ready to lead in the fast-growing biomedical industry? APU’s accelerated track empowers
you to earn a Bachelor of Science in Engineering and a
Master of Science in Biotechnology
in just five years. This pathway explores topics including molecular biology, biomedical
product development, and project management, positioning you for impactful careers.
You can complete up to 9 units of graduate coursework during your undergraduate studies
(those units apply to both programs), then take the remaining 30 graduate units in
your fifth year.

Your journey begins by applying to APU as an engineering major. During your junior
year, you can apply to the MS in Biotechnology program if you have a 3.0 GPA or higher,
and APU will waive the graduate application fee. For more information, contact
[email protected]
and take the next step toward your future.

PROGRAM EDUCATIONAL OBJECTIVES

• Core Technical Competencies and Lifelong Learning: Our graduates will demonstrate effective use of their core technical competencies
 in engineering through progressive advancement in their professional careers, including,
 in many cases, mastery of emerging technologies, pursuit of specialized areas, attainment
 of advanced degrees, or professional licensure or certifications.
• Effective Teamwork: Our graduates will work effectively as team members and leaders in diverse professional
 environments and career paths.
• Impact of Technology: Our graduates will demonstrate, in their professional careers, a clear understanding
 of the impact of technology in global and societal contexts, and of its implications
 from a Christian ethics perspective.

STUDENT OUTCOMES

The bachelor’s degree in engineering program at Azusa Pacific University prepares
you to graduate with the knowledge, experience, and confidence to excel as a successful
engineer, providing solutions to a world in need.

By the time you complete your degree, you’ll demonstrate key outcomes, including the
following:

• An ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying
 principles of engineering, science, and mathematics.
• An ability to apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs
 with consideration of public health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural,
 social, environmental, and economic factors.
• An ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences.
• An ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations
 and make informed judgments, which must consider the impact of engineering solutions
 in global, economic, environmental, and societal contexts.
• An ability to function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership,
 create a collaborative and inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and
 meet objectives.
• An ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret
 data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions.
• An ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning
 strategies.
Discover your future at Azusa Pacific University. We’ve created a straightforward
undergraduate admissions process
that helps you take the next step toward a purpose-filled education.

The prerequisites and required next steps for applying to APU may vary depending on
your student type. For more detailed admissions information, select your enrollment
path:

• First-time Freshman
• Transfer Student
• International Student
Have questions along the way?
Connect with our dedicated admissions representatives to get the support you need
.

Azusa Pacific University makes a Christ-centered education affordable and accessible.
To help you cover the cost of your bachelor’s degree in engineering, we offer a range
of
financial aid
options, including federal loans, state grants, fellowships, and scholarships.

For more information, contact the
Student Services Center
at (626) 815-2020.

SCHOLARSHIPS AND GRANTS

Scholarships
and
grants
are considered gift aid, meaning they do not require repayment. These awards may
come from federal, state, institutional, or private sources. Scholarships are often
merit-based and awarded for academic achievement, leadership, or other demonstrated
talents.

While APU does award scholarships, you can also find external scholarship opportunities
through websites such as
Finaid
and
Fastweb
. Contact the
Student Services Center
about scholarships offered through APU departments or local organizations.

STUDENT EMPLOYMENT

Along with gift aid and student loans, you can apply for
on-campus student employment
opportunities to earn additional income to pay for education-related expenses. As
an APU student, you can also find work off campus in the surrounding community.

MILITARY AND VETERANS BENEFITS

If you are a veteran, serve in the military, or qualify as a spouse or dependent,
you may access financial assistance
that helps cover the cost of tuition, housing, and books. As a
Yellow Ribbon and Military Friendly School
, APU offers the support and flexibility needed to help you complete your bachelor’s
degree.

NET PRICE CALCULATOR

We’re committed to helping you understand the value of the APU experience early in
the college search process. Once you’ve explored the financial aid opportunities available,
take the next step by estimating your cost to attend. The Net Price Calculator provides
a personalized estimate based on the information you share, so you can start planning
today!

Calculate Net Price

BY THE NUMBERS

CAREER OUTCOMES FOR ENGINEERING MAJORS

Across fields, engineers rely on analytical thinking, creativity, and precision as
they design, test, and improve systems that shape our world—from infrastructure and
technology to health care and energy. Pursuing a bachelor’s degree in engineering
equips you with the technical skills and hands-on experience needed to enter this
industry and start making an impact.

In Southern California, a hub for aerospace, entertainment, construction, and advanced
technology, APU graduates have opportunities to launch their engineering careers in
the middle of innovation.

CULTIVATING BELONGING: MADEY SULE ’27

Madey Sule ’27, an international student studying engineering and Honors humanities,
brings a clear sense of purpose to her work at APU. As she pursues her goal of becoming
a biomedical engineer, she actively engages in student life and finds her place in
APU’s Christ-centered community.

DEPARTMENT OF COMPUTER SCIENCE, ENGINEERING, MATHEMATICS, PHYSICS, AND STATISTICS
 FACULTY

Learn from professors who bring real-world engineering experience into every course
and support your growth as an innovator and problem solver. Through a blend of industry
insight and personalized mentorship, faculty guide you throughout your time at APU
so you graduate ready to lead with confidence.

AISHA CHEN

Associate Professor, Department of Computer Science, Engineering, Math, Physics, and Statistics

Meet Your Faculty

DISCOVER HOW APU’S BS IN ENGINEERING SETS YOU APART

Take the next step toward your God-given calling by pursuing a Bachelor of Science
in Engineering at Azusa Pacific University. As you gain new skills through hands-on
learning and internships, you grow as a leader and innovator, ready to change the
world.

Excited for the opportunities ahead? Apply to APU today!

Apply Now

Apply Now

RELATED PROGRAMS

COMPUTER SCIENCE MAJOR

• Azusa

BUSINESS ANALYTICS MAJOR

• Azusa
Available Concentrations:

Accounting, Economics, Finance, Marketing

APPLIED MATHEMATICS MAJOR

• Azusa
Available Concentrations:

Standard Applied Mathematics Track, Actuarial Science, Computer Science, Physics, Statistics and Data Science