APPLYING TO POMONA

We look forward to learning more about your goals, your ideas and your evolving self through reading your application to Pomona. Our application review process does not rely on cut-offs or formulas. Instead, we consider many factors as we determine your academic readiness and fit for Pomona: your curriculum and grades, evaluations by teachers and counselors, your activities and talents, and your essays. We also look at each applicant in context: what courses are available at your school? What is the college-going culture at your school? What particular challenges or circumstances have supported or hindered your performance? We encourage you to use your application to present yourself authentically by sharing with us what activities mean the most to you, what goals motivate you and what ideas get you excited.

OUR APPLICATION REVIEW PROCESS

In assessing applicants’ academic readiness and fit for Pomona, we take into account:

COURSES TAKEN

We recommend students complete four to five academic courses each term of high school, with four years of English, natural science and mathematics. We recommend two of those science courses are lab science and that students interested in STEM majors complete calculus. Additionally, we recommend three years each of foreign language and social science. However, these are not admission requirements but recommendations for the best preparation for Pomona’s curriculum.

If you have been home-schooled or have pursued a unique educational path,
contact us
about submitting other evidence of your academic preparation for college.

RIGOR OF CURRICULUM

Students who have taken and succeeded in challenging courses in high school are more likely to be prepared for Pomona courses. However, if you attend a school that does not offer advanced course options, you will not be at a disadvantage in the admissions process. Neither do we expect or require applicants to take every class at the highest level of rigor, but to challenge themselves where appropriate. In evaluating your curriculum, we consider what courses are available to you (including honors, AP, IB and other advanced designations) and your own choices. Typically, we have a profile of your school, which indicates what is available and how much choice you might have about your curriculum, but if you feel the need to explain any of your choices, feel welcome to do so.

GPA

Your GPA is a number, not a statement about your potential. We look closely at applicants’ transcripts, beyond the GPA, to understand academic performance. Grades matter, but we also consider trends and patterns in grades, the rigor of your curriculum and your course choices. We are looking for evidence of your academic aptitude and achievement, and grades are part of this evaluation.

RECOMMENDATIONS

These should be written by teachers of core academic subject areas: English, foreign languages, math, science or social sciences. We prefer letters from teachers who know you well. Optionally, a recommendation from a teacher of an elective subject (music, art, journalism, etc.), or by a coach, employer or other individual who can speak to your skills or special qualities may serve as an additional recommendation.

ESSAYS

The personal essay, as well as the Pomona-specific essays, help us consider applicants’ fit with Pomona’s creative and collaborative culture. If you think of your application as a novel about you, in which you are the central character, the essays are where you can speak directly to us in your own voice. Your teachers and counselor have told us about you in the classroom and school, your transcript has told us something about your academic preparation, but we are eager to hear directly from you so that we might better understand you as a person. We look not just for strong writing, but for individual voice, passion and thoughtfulness. What do you care about? What do you wonder about? How have you responded to events in your life? We feel honored to read your essays and look forward to meeting you through them.

The Pomona-specific essay prompts for those applying for Fall 2026 admission include an academic interest statement (max. 150 words) and a short-response essay (max. 250 words).

• Academic Interest Statement: What draws you to the subject(s) you selected as potential major(s)? If undecided, share more about one of your academic passions or interests. (150 words)
• Short-Response Essay: Pomona is home to a diverse community of faculty, staff and students who, through close ties and collaboration, enable each other to identify and explore their greatest passions. Considering this, respond to one of the following: (250 words) Reflecting on a community that you are a part of, what values or perspectives from that community would you bring to Pomona? Describe an experience you had outside the classroom that changed the way you think and/or how you engage with your peers. What was that experience and what did you learn from it? Choose any person or group of people in your life and share how they would describe you.
• Reflecting on a community that you are a part of, what values or perspectives from that community would you bring to Pomona?
• Describe an experience you had outside the classroom that changed the way you think and/or how you engage with your peers. What was that experience and what did you learn from it?
• Choose any person or group of people in your life and share how they would describe you.

VALUED QUALITIES

When speaking about “fit,” we do not mean all Pomona students are the same. Far from it. Each is different, with diverse talents and perspectives that, when gathered into a community, creates excitement, innovation and constant forward motion: when your roommate comes from a different cultural background, has different abilities than yours, and pursues a different academic path, you will have a lot to learn from each other! So we look for evidence of various qualities throughout your application, including:

• Intellectually Capable & Academically Committed . We look for evidence that applicants are academically prepared for Pomona.
• Probing Inquiry & Creative Learning . We look for evidence of intellectual curiosity, enthusiasm and/or passion for learning, as well as the creativity associated with the pursuit of knowledge.
• Commitment to Collaborative Engagement & Perspective. We hope to learn about an applicant's lived experience and their commitment to collaborate and engage in a community of varied perspectives.
• Investment in Community / Network Builder . We hope to learn more about how applicants engage with and contribute to groups and/or communities outside the classroom.
• Personal Traits . We hope to learn more about applicants’ personal or character traits to assess how they might contribute to the Pomona community.

APPLICATION TYPE

Students are encouraged to look at the different application types that Pomona accepts and choose the one that best allows them to showcase their abilities. Pomona does not have a preference between the Common Application and Apply Coalition on Scoir. Pomona is also a
QuestBridge College Partner
, so students may apply to Pomona through the QuestBridge National College Match or the QuestBridge application.

POMONA AFFILIATION

While the application asks if you have any relatives who have attended and/or worked for Pomona College, we do not use this information for evaluative purposes or give any preferential treatment to applicants based on this information. As has been the practice for many years, Pomona does not consider legacy or donor-affiliated status in the admissions process.

PRIVACY STATEMENT

Pomona College maintains a
robust privacy policy
that guides the work of the Office of Admissions.

In addition to the College-wide policy, the Office of Admissions maintains
its own policy
with regard to student privacy.

Starting May 18, there will be construction near the Office of Admissions. Please follow instructions from college staff when visiting campus.
Learn more
.

Monday through Friday
9 a.m. – 5 p.m.

Request Information