BACHELOR OF ARTS IN WOMEN AND GENDER STUDIES

Students wishing to declare Women and Gender Studies as their major can now do so online, via Campus Solutions. A follow-up email will be sent from the Department Chair. Students can also make an appointment with one of the undergraduate advisers and
fill out an advising form
before the appointment.

Students majoring in Women and Gender Studies may enroll in WGS courses and courses focusing on women, gender, and sexuality in any other department. The choice of electives is flexible, and your advisor will assist you in devising a program appropriate to your own needs and interests. With the consent of your academic adviser, you may also use courses with a focus on women taken at other colleges and universities as part of the Women and Gender Studies major.

PROGRAM LEARNING OUTCOMES

• Students will be able to define and describe contesting theories, methods, histories, and representations of women, gender, and feminism.
• Students will identify the politics of knowledge production across multiple disciplines in relation to Women and Gender Studies.
• Students will be able to compare and distinguish historical understandings of gender in relation to structural inequality, social movements, and labor struggles.
• Students will be able to explain and situate the ways citizenship is shaped through both the institutional foundations of governance and ideological mechanisms of politics.
• Students will be able to examine women and gender in relation of race, class, sexuality, colonialism, multiculturalism, and/or globalization.
• Students will be able to conceptualize and analyze gender and feminism in a transnational framework and from an interdisciplinary perspective, using a range of methodological tools while also demonstrating writing proficiency.
• Students will be able to integrate their academic studies in Women and Gender Studies into their professional goals and be able to formulate and implement theoretically informed political, cultural, and community action.

WOMEN AND GENDER STUDIES (B.A.)
– 30 UNITS

• Students may double-count a maximum of 12 units for both General Education and the Women and Gender Studies major.
• A maximum of 9 units within the major can be taken credit/no credit, but students are strongly urged to take all courses within the major for letter grades.

CORE COURSES (12 UNITS)

PRAXIS (3 UNITS)

Select one:

BODY POLITICS (3 UNITS)

Select One:

POWER AND VIOLENCE (3 UNITS)

Select One:

CULTURE, MEDIA, AND ART (3 UNITS)

Select One:

SOCIAL MOVEMENTS (3 UNITS)

Select One:

ELECTIVE (3 UNITS)

Select One:

Note:
A minimum of 30 upper-division units must be completed for the degree (including upper-division units required for the major, general education, electives, etc.). A student can complete this major yet not attain the necessary number of upper-division units required for graduation. In this case, additional upper-division courses will be needed to reach the required total.

GENERAL EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS

Note: LD = Lower-Division; UD = Upper-Division.

FIRST-TIME STUDENT ROADMAP (4 YEAR)

The roadmaps presented in this Bulletin are intended as suggested plans of study and do not replace meeting with an advisor. For a more personalized roadmap, please use the
Degree Planner
tool found in your
Student Center
.

First-Time Student Roadmap

TRANSFER STUDENT ROADMAP (2 YEARS)

For students with an AA-T in
Social Justice Studies
.
SJS ADT Roadmap

SF STATE SCHOLARS

The San Francisco State Scholars program provides undergraduate students with an accelerated pathway to a graduate degree. Students in this program pursue a bachelor’s and master’s degree simultaneously. This program allows students to earn graduate credit while in their junior and/or senior year, reducing the number of semesters required for completion of a master’s degree.

Women and Gender Studies BA + MA SF State Scholars Roadmap

THIS DEGREE PROGRAM IS AN APPROVED PATHWAY (“SIMILAR” MAJOR) FOR STUDENTS EARNING THE ADT IN SOCIAL JUSTICE STUDIES

California legislation SB 1440 (2009) mandated the creation of the Associate Degree for Transfer (ADT) to be awarded by the California Community Colleges. Two types of ADTs are awarded: Associate in Arts for Transfer (AA-T) and Associate in Science for Transfer (AS-T).

Note: no specific degree is required for admission as an upper-division student. However, the ADT includes specific guarantees related to admission and graduation and is designed to clarify the transfer process and strengthen lower-division preparation for the major.

An ADT totals 60 units and in most cases includes completion of all lower-division General Education requirements and at least 18 units in a specific major. (The Biology, Chemistry, and Environmental Science AS-T degrees defer 3 units in lower-division GE area 3 and 3 units in lower-division GE area 4 until after transfer.) Students pursuing an ADT are guaranteed admission to the CSU if minimum eligibility requirements are met, though not necessarily to the CSU campus of primary choice.

Upon verification that the ADT has been awarded prior to matriculation at SF State, students are guaranteed B.A. or B.S. completion in 60 units if pursuing a “similar” major after transfer. Determinations about “similar” majors at SF State are made by faculty in the discipline.

Degree completion in 60 units cannot be guaranteed when a student simultaneously pursues an additional major, a minor, certificate, or credential.

A sample advising roadmap for students who have earned an ADT and continue in a "similar" major at SF State is available on the Roadmaps tab on the degree requirements page for the major. The roadmap displays:

• How many lower-division units required for the major have been completed upon entry based on the award of a specific ADT;
• Which lower-division requirements are considered complete upon entry based on the award of a specific ADT;
• How to complete the remaining 60 units for the degree in four semesters.
Students who have earned an ADT should seek advising in the major department during the first semester of attendance.

GENERAL ADVISING INFORMATION FOR TRANSFER STUDENTS

• Before transfer, complete as many lower-division requirements or electives for this major as possible.
• The following courses are not required for admission but are required for graduation. Students are strongly encouraged to complete these units before transfer; doing so will provide more flexibility in course selection after transfer. a course in U.S. History a course in U.S. & California Government
• a course in U.S. History
• a course in U.S. & California Government
For information about satisfying the requirements described in (1) and (2) above at a California Community College (CCC), please visit
http://www.assist.org
. Check any geographically accessible CCCs; sometimes, options include more than one college. Use ASSIST to determine:

• Which courses at a CCC satisfy any lower-division major requirements for this major;
• Which courses at a CCC satisfy CSU GE, US History, and US & CA Government requirements.
Remedial courses are not transferable and do not apply to the minimum 60 semester units/90 quarter units required for admission.

Additional units for courses that are repeated do not apply to the minimum 60 units required for upper-division transfer (for example, if a course was not passed on the first attempt or was taken to earn a better grade).

Before leaving the last California Community College of attendance, obtain a summary of completion of lower-division General Education units (IGETC or CSU GE Breadth). This is often referred to as a GE certification worksheet. SF State does not require delivery of this certification to Admissions, but students should retain this document for verifying degree progress after transfer.

Credit for Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, or College-Level Examination Program courses: AP/IB/CLEP credit is not automatically transferred from the previous institution. Units are transferred only when an official score report is delivered to SF State. Credit is based on the academic year during which exams were taken. Refer to the University Bulletin in effect during the year of AP/IB/CLEP examination(s) for details regarding the award of credit for AP/IB/CLEP.

Students pursuing majors in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) disciplines often defer 6-9 units of lower-division General Education in Areas C and D until after transfer to focus on preparation courses for the major. This advice does not apply to students pursuing associate degree completion before transfer.

TRANSFERRING FROM INSTITUTIONS OTHER THAN CCCS OR CSUS

Review SF State's lower-division General Education requirements. Note that, as described below, the four basic skills courses required for admission meet GE Areas 1A/A2, 1B/A3, 1C/A1, and 2/B4 in the SF State GE pattern. Courses that fulfill the remaining areas of SF State’s lower-division GE pattern are available at most two-year and four-year colleges and universities.

Of the four required basic skills courses, a course in critical thinking (1B/A3) may not be widely offered outside the CCC and CSU systems. Students should attempt to identify and take an appropriate course no later than the term of application to the CSU. To review more information about the 1B/A3 requirement, please visit
bulletin.sfsu.edu/undergraduate-education/general-education/lower-division/#AAEL
.

Waiting until after transfer to take a single course at SF State that meets both US and CA/local government requirements may be an appropriate option, particularly if transferring from outside of California.