• Skip Nav
• Accessibility
• Calendar
• Directory
• A to Z
• Webmail
• Advanced Search
• Home
• Majors
• Minors
• Policies & Procedures
• General Education
• Graduate Studies
• Faculty
• Courses

CIVIL ENGINEERING

• Overview
• Programs
• Faculty
• Courses

PROGRAM:
CIVIL ENGINEERING, B.S.

• email
• print
• Home
• /
• Civil Engineering
• /
• Programs
• /
• Civil Engineering, B.S.

PROGRAM DESCRIPTION

Civil Engineers design the infrastructure of our world, from bridges and freeways to sewer systems and libraries. Their work touches nearly every facet of our society’s everyday lives, including but not limited to structures, water supply, waste management, materials, construction, geotechnical, the environment and transportation. Their work is vital, particularly in Southern California where environmental, transportation and water issues are of major importance, and where structural problems, especially related to earthquakes, demand sound engineering solutions.

Civil Engineering majors at CSUN receive a solid, broad-based education. During the first two years and into the third year, all Engineering majors complete a common engineering core curriculum. Among the many topic areas in the core curriculum are mathematics, physics, chemistry, engineering materials, electrical circuits, engineering mechanics, thermodynamics and engineering economy.

The junior and senior years in Civil Engineering build on the common engineering core curriculum. These two years include instruction in structures, vibration analysis, hydraulics, soil mechanics, surveying, computer-aided design and graphics, strength of materials, concrete and steel design, construction engineering and senior design.

Civil Engineering students take classes and work in the following facilities: the Applied Mechanics Lab, where students apply engineering techniques to the static and dynamic behavior of mechanical systems; the Civil Engineering Senior Design Laboratory is used in a two-semester course that simulates a professional civil engineering environment; the Geotechnical Laboratory, where students look at the behavior of soil as an engineering material; and the Structural Analysis Research Center, where students have the opportunity to work with faculty on such diverse projects as dams, buildings, towers and spacecraft.

Besides these facilities, students use Los Angeles itself as a laboratory, studying buildings, spacecraft, dams and other structures.

With the broad-based education students receive at CSUN, it is highly recommended that they prepare to take the EIT (Engineering in Training), now commonly referred to as the FE (Fundamentals in Engineering) Exam, before graduation. This is a national exam, 8 hours in length and covering the basic topics that comprise the common core in engineering. The EIT or FE exam is the first of two exams that are required to become a registered engineer in the State of California. To sit for the second exam, additional work experience is required beyond the bachelor degree. In today’s society, it is almost imperative that students preparing for the Civil Engineering profession become registered. CSUN has an excellent reputation of preparing students for this goal.

ACCREDITATION

The Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET,
https://www.abet.org
, under the commission’s General Criteria and Program Criteria for Civil and Similarly Named Engineering Programs.

EDUCATIONAL OBJECTIVES

To carry out the mission of the civil engineering program, the faculty have established the following educational objectives. During the first few years (1-5) following graduation, the graduates of the Civil Engineering program will have the following qualities:

• Graduates will obtain their certifications, and/or professional registration, and accept increasing levels of responsibility.
• Graduates will continue further studies in engineering and other professional disciplines throughout their careers.
• Graduates will develop creative and appropriate solutions to project challenges that are cost effective and environmentally sensitive.

PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS

The Civil Engineering program expects an adequate high school preparation in science, mathematics and English. High school courses should include algebra, plane geometry, trigonometry and chemistry or physics (both desirable), and four years of English.

CSUN provides the opportunity for students who have not had a complete background of pre-engineering work in high school to take courses to prepare for the major. These additional courses will not count toward the major and may increase the time to graduate. CSUN provides testing as outlined below to ensure that students start their engineering coursework at an appropriate level.

PLACEMENT EXAM REQUIREMENT

The
Chemistry Placement Test (CPT)
is required with a minimum score of 40 prior to enrolling in
CHEM 101
. Students who have had high school chemistry and expect to enroll in
CHEM 101
must take this test regardless of their score on the AP Chemistry exam. Students who do not achieve this CPT score must complete
CHEM 100
with a grade of “C” or better before taking
CHEM 101
.

SPECIAL GRADE REQUIREMENTS

• All students must complete the lower division writing requirement before enrolling in 300-level engineering courses.
• A grade of “C-” or better is required in all courses in the major. A grade of “C” or better is required in all undergraduate transfer courses.
• Senior-level courses cannot be taken unless the student previously completed or is concurrently completing all freshman-, sophomore- and junior-level core requirements.
• A grade of “C” or higher is necessary in MATH 150B to meet the prerequisite requirements for the next-level math courses.

COURSE REQUIREMENTS

1. LOWER DIVISION REQUIRED COURSES (43 UNITS)

BIOL 106 Biological Principles I (3)
CE 101/L Introduction to Civil Engineering and Lab (1/1)
CHEM 101 General Chemistry I (3)
CHEM 101D Problem Solving in General Chemistry I (1)
CHEM 101L General Chemistry I Lab (1)
MATH 150A Calculus I (5)
MATH 150B Calculus II (5)
PHYS 220A Mechanics (3)
PHYS 220AL Mechanics Lab (1)

CE 240/L Engineering Statics and Lab (2/1)
CE 280/L Computer Applications in Civil Engineering and Lab (1/1)
MATH 250 Calculus III (3)
MATH 280 Applied Differential Equations (3)
PHYS 220B Electricity and Magnetism (3)
PHYS 220BL Electricity and Magnetism Lab (1)
MSE 224 Building and Infrastructure Materials (3)
MSE 224L Building and Infrastructure Materials Lab (1)

2. UPPER DIVISION REQUIRED COURSES (57 UNITS)

AM 316 Engineering Dynamics (3)
AM 317 Mechanics Lab (1)
CE 308/L Surveying and Lab (2/1)
CE 315/L Construction Engineering and Lab (2/1)
CE 335/L Structures I and Lab (3/1)
CE 340/L Strength of Materials and Lab (2/1)
CE 408/L Surveying with GPS Applications and Lab (1/1)
ME 370 Thermodynamics (3)
ME 390 Fluid Mechanics (3)
MSE 304 Engineering Economic Analysis (3)

AM 410 Vibration Analysis (3)
CE 426/L Soil Mechanics and Lab (3/1)
CE 438 Reinforced Concrete Design (3)
CE 439 Structural Steel Design (3)
CE 460/L Engineering Hydrology and Lab (2/1)
CE 488A/L Civil Engineering Senior Design I and Lab (1/1)
CE 488B Civil Engineering Senior Design II (2)
CE 526 Geotechnical Foundation Design (3)
ME 493 Hydraulics (3)

Students must select 3 units of electives. These electives, together with the required courses listed above, constitute the student’s Civil Engineering senior year. The elective program must be approved by the Civil Engineering department before students file a graduation check.

ECE 240N Introduction to Electrical Circuits (3)
CE 441/L Highway Design and Lab (2/1)
CE 480 Water Resources Engineering (3)
CE 487 Water Pollution (3)

3. GENERAL EDUCATION (43 UNITS)

Undergraduate students must complete 43 units of
General Education
as described in this Catalog, including 3 units of coursework meeting the
Ethnic Studies (E.S.)
requirement.

20 units are satisfied by coursework in the major. Completion of the Civil Engineering major satisfies Basic Skills Area 1B Critical Thinking.
MATH 150A
satisfies Basic Skills Area 2 Mathematical Concepts and Quantitative Reasoning; 1 unit of Area 3A Arts or Area 3B Humanities is waived;
MSE 304
satisfies 3 units of upper division Area 4 Social and Behavioral Sciences;
PHYS 220A
satisfies Area 5A Physical Science;
BIOL 106
satisfies Area 5B Biological Science;
PHYS 220AL
satisfies Area 5C Science Laboratory Activity; and
ME 370
satisfies Area 5 Physical and Biological Sciences, Upper Division.
ME 370
and
MSE 304
taken at CSUN may count as Writing Intensive.

4. CAMPUS REQUIREMENTS (6 UNITS)

Undergraduate students must complete 6 units of
Campus Requirements
as described in this Catalog. 3 units are satisfied by the following courses in the major:
CE 101/L
and
CE 280/L
meet the Lifelong Learning requirement.

TOTAL UNITS IN THE MAJOR: 100

GENERAL EDUCATION UNITS: 23

CAMPUS REQUIREMENT UNITS: 3

TOTAL UNITS REQUIRED FOR THE B.S. DEGREE: 126

MORE INFORMATION

For more information about this program, please contact
nazaret.dermendjian@csun.edu
.

CONTACT

PROGRAM LEARNING OUTCOMES

Students receiving a Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering will be able to:

• Identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of knowledge of engineering, science, and mathematics.
• Apply the engineering design process to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration for public health and safety, and global, cultural, social, environmental, economic, and other factors as appropriate to the discipline.
• Develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions.
• Communicate effectively with a range of audiences.
• Recognize the ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed judgments, which must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and societal contexts.
• Recognize the ongoing need to acquire new knowledge, to choose appropriate learning strategies, and to apply this knowledge.
• Function effectively as a member or leader of a team that establishes goals, plan tasks, meets deadlines, and creates a collaborative and inclusive environment.

DEGREE ROAD MAPS

Civil Engineering (2025-Present)

Previous Years

TRANSFER ROAD MAPS

Civil Engineering (2025-Present)

Previous Years

View Catalog Archives, Degree Road Maps and external resources here: