FIRST-YEAR STUDENT ADMISSION

APPLY TO USF AS A FIRST-YEAR STUDENT

Ready to change the world from here? As a freshman student at the University of San Francisco, you’ll challenge yourself in small classes, make meaningful connections with your professors, and experience the best of a
Jesuit liberal arts education
.

There are many other schools in the Bay Area — only USF puts you smack dab in the center of San Francisco, the city known for innovation and social progress.

APPLY AS A FIRST-YEAR STUDENT

• Previous slide
• Next slide

MAJORS & MINORS

Choose from 42 majors and 70+ minors to design your own undergraduate experience.

DATES & DEADLINES

Apply by January 15 for the fall term and November 1 for the spring term.

WHAT WE LOOK FOR

MAJORS & MINORS

Choose from 42 majors and 70+ minors to design your own undergraduate experience.

DATES & DEADLINES

Apply by January 15 for the fall term and November 1 for the spring term.

WHAT WE LOOK FOR

Here's how to apply to USF:

• Complete the Common Application , USF's Direct Application * or the Coalition Application by the application deadline . All applications are treated equally in the admission process, so you can pick whichever one works best for you. (*The USF direct application is for non-nursing majors only)
• Don’t forget to also send these supplementary materials: High school transcript: We’ll accept unofficial transcripts as long as they are in PDF format and clearly show your full name, your school's name, your courses, and your grades. Unreadable or illegible PDF documents will not be accepted. If you are admitted to USF and you choose to enroll, you’ll be asked to provide your official final transcript. (See instructions for submitting your official transcript) . Fall Senior Grades: If you’re applying Early Decision or Early Action and your application is deferred to Regular Decision, you will be required to submit your grades from your fall semester. If you’re applying Regular Decision, your fall senior grades aren’t required, but they are highly recommended. Short Answer Question (Nursing Only): In the USF supplement to the Common App, there is a short answer question about our Jesuit mission: What will be your responsibility to others as a Jesuit-educated, BSN professional registered nurse? English proficiency test scores: If English is not your native language, you are required to submit official results of the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL), the International English Language Testing System (IELTS), or the Duolingo English test. Learn more about our English language proficiency requirements , including how to waive these requirements. (Optional) Gap Year explanation: If you have taken, are currently taking, or plan to take a gap year or additional time off after completing high school, there is a section on the Common Application for you to explain how you have spent your time or how you plan to spend your time. (Optional) Letter of Recommendation: A letter of recommendation is not required for admission. You may still submit one if you’d like, but we will consider all applications on equal grounds, regardless of whether you’ve submitted a letter or not. (Optional) SAT or ACT scores: USF does not require students to submit standardized test scores when applying for undergraduate admission. Learn more about our Test Optional policy . If you do choose to submit your scores, you may have them sent directly from the testing agency, or you may send unofficial (self-reported) scores. You can send a screenshot of your test scores (name, test date, scores, and subscores must be visible), or have your counselor email us your score reports or an updated transcript with your scores to appservices@usfca.edu . The writing sections of the SAT are not used in the evaluation process. USF will continue to superscore both the SAT and ACT. If you submit both scores for our review, we will use the highest score available for our admission review.
• High school transcript: We’ll accept unofficial transcripts as long as they are in PDF format and clearly show your full name, your school's name, your courses, and your grades. Unreadable or illegible PDF documents will not be accepted. If you are admitted to USF and you choose to enroll, you’ll be asked to provide your official final transcript. (See instructions for submitting your official transcript) .
• Fall Senior Grades: If you’re applying Early Decision or Early Action and your application is deferred to Regular Decision, you will be required to submit your grades from your fall semester. If you’re applying Regular Decision, your fall senior grades aren’t required, but they are highly recommended.
• Short Answer Question (Nursing Only): In the USF supplement to the Common App, there is a short answer question about our Jesuit mission: What will be your responsibility to others as a Jesuit-educated, BSN professional registered nurse?
• English proficiency test scores: If English is not your native language, you are required to submit official results of the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL), the International English Language Testing System (IELTS), or the Duolingo English test. Learn more about our English language proficiency requirements , including how to waive these requirements.
• (Optional) Gap Year explanation: If you have taken, are currently taking, or plan to take a gap year or additional time off after completing high school, there is a section on the Common Application for you to explain how you have spent your time or how you plan to spend your time.
• (Optional) Letter of Recommendation: A letter of recommendation is not required for admission. You may still submit one if you’d like, but we will consider all applications on equal grounds, regardless of whether you’ve submitted a letter or not.
• (Optional) SAT or ACT scores: USF does not require students to submit standardized test scores when applying for undergraduate admission. Learn more about our Test Optional policy . If you do choose to submit your scores, you may have them sent directly from the testing agency, or you may send unofficial (self-reported) scores. You can send a screenshot of your test scores (name, test date, scores, and subscores must be visible), or have your counselor email us your score reports or an updated transcript with your scores to appservices@usfca.edu . The writing sections of the SAT are not used in the evaluation process. USF will continue to superscore both the SAT and ACT. If you submit both scores for our review, we will use the highest score available for our admission review.

• Pay the nonrefundable application fee. Fee waivers are available through the Common App, NACAC, or College Board. Contact your admission counselor for more information.
Apply now

• What is the Common App? The Common App is a college application platform that allows high school students to apply to multiple colleges and universities using a single application. Instead of filling out multiple applications for each school, you complete one comprehensive application that can be submitted to any of the participating institutions. The University of San Francisco uses the Common App. The Common App opens on August 1 each year for the following spring and fall terms.

WHAT IS THE COMMON APP?

The Common App is a college application platform that allows high school students to apply to multiple colleges and universities using a single application. Instead of filling out multiple applications for each school, you complete one comprehensive application that can be submitted to any of the participating institutions. The University of San Francisco uses the Common App. The Common App opens on August 1 each year for the following spring and fall terms.

• When do you apply to USF? Apply to USF in your senior year of high school. The Early Decision I and Early Action deadline is November 1. The Early Decision II and Regular Decision deadline is January 15. See all of our dates and deadlines .

WHEN DO YOU APPLY TO USF?

Apply to USF in your senior year of high school. The Early Decision I and Early Action deadline is November 1. The Early Decision II and Regular Decision deadline is January 15. See all of our
dates and deadlines
.

• How do I write my USF college application essay? Your college application essay, also known as your personal statement on the Common App, is a 650-word essay that shares your personal story — something that is important to you, defines who you are as a person (beyond your grades) or has made a memorable impact on your life. The personal statement is different from supplemental essays, which are additional short answers that may be required for certain colleges or universities. USF does not require a supplemental essay (except for nursing majors).

HOW DO I WRITE MY USF COLLEGE APPLICATION ESSAY?

Your college application essay, also known as your personal statement on the Common App, is a 650-word essay that shares your personal story — something that is important to you, defines who you are as a person (beyond your grades) or has made a memorable impact on your life. The personal statement is different from supplemental essays, which are additional short answers that may be required for certain colleges or universities. USF does not require a supplemental essay (except for nursing majors).

USF APPLICATION DETAILS

FINANCIAL AID & COST

COLLEGE PREP
GUIDES

Whether you're just starting to think about college or you're knee-deep in applications, we've got you.

Check out our seven essential college prep guides. They’re applicable to any college you’ll be applying to, not just USF.

CASSIDY CHUNG 25'

WHY DID YOU
CHOSE USF?

I've always dreamed of moving to San Francisco. While it is a city, there are suburban areas, the ocean to one side, downtown to the other, beautiful hiking, shopping, and so much more!"

CASSIDY CHUNG 25'

VIRTUAL TOUR

EXPLORE OUR CAMPUS

OFFICE OF UNDERGRADUATE ADMISSION

• Main Campus

Monday - Friday:
8:30 a.m. - 5 p.m.

Call
(415) 422-6563
Text
(415) 636-6272