BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION

PREPARING YOU FOR SUCCESS

Distinguish yourself in the competitive business world of tomorrow by earning your degree in Business Administration from Mount Saint Mary’s University. Unlike most business degrees that focus on traditional curricula, the Mount’s distinct approach prepares you for a career as a leader who has mastered the challenges of complex decision-making — while focusing on your role as a responsible member of the global community.

Your Mount education will include personal engagement with fellow students, academic and professional mentoring, and networking with those who can help you further your career goals. Small class sizes mean genuine access to professors, each of whom take a personal interest in your success. You’ll be continually challenged while thriving in an incredibly supportive environment.

As educators, Mount faculty in Business Administration are highly skilled at developing ethical leaders and promoting inclusiveness and diversity. Our focus on high-touch, high-impact value-added education has transformed the lives and career paths of many students.

Through degree programs for both undergraduate and graduate students, the Department of Business Administration at Mount Saint Mary’s University will prepare you for professional success.

TOP 5 PICKS FOR THE BEST ASSOCIATE DEGREES IN BUSINESS

The Mount’s Associate in Arts in Business Administration has been named one of the "Top 5 Picks for the Best Associate Degrees in Business" by
MBACaliforniaEDU.org
. This recognition highlights our program for its excellence in delivering a standout associate degree in Business, making it a top choice for students seeking quality education in California.

DEGREE PROGRAMS

UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMS

This program prepares students with needed technical skills for the jobs of today while also preparing them for career-long success through professional development. Students can choose from four emphases: Accounting, international business, management and marketing.

WEEKEND/EVENING & ONLINE PROGRAM

This degree, offered through our Weekend/Evening & Online College (WEOC), is designed for working professionals looking to advance their business careers. In MSMU’s Weekend/Evening & Online College, you’ll discover a Business Administration educational environment characterized by four key themes: global business, management communications, business ethics, and innovations in contemporary business management.

GRADUATE PROGRAM

As part of your studies, you’ll discover how the Mount’s curriculum emphasizes the worldwide nature of business today; the primacy of effective communication of ideas and leadership goals; the importance of ethics (and how they are their own reward); and a pursuit of innovation that will create a lifetime of success. The MBA program at Mount Saint Mary’s University is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Business School and Programs (ACBSP).

PIONEERING EXPERIENTIAL EDUCATION

Mount Saint Mary’s University is a pioneer in experiential education — where students move out of the classroom and into the real world to gain first-hand experience in their fields of study.

The Department of Business Administration is a leader in experiential education, thanks to its comprehensive internship program. Our goal is to provide advanced business majors with an off-campus learning experience like no other.

ENGAGING IN REAL-WORLD EXPERIENCE

Student internships demonstrate the relationship between academic studies and real-world career objectives, policies and practices. Internships allow Athenians to develop networks with business professionals. And Mount internships also give students connections to post-graduation employment opportunities they might not otherwise enjoy.

Our goal is to provide each Business Administration student with practical experience that not only makes their education more meaningful, but also helps with professional prospects. Nearly 40% of interns are offered full-time positions upon graduation, demonstrating the importance of internships in the Business Administration degree program.

As part of the internship program, students earn Mount credits and are evaluated by both the employer and a faculty member.

PAST INTERNSHIPS

Here’s a small sampling of the companies that have hosted Mount internships in the recent past:

• Aflac

AFLAC

• Bank of America

BANK OF AMERICA

• Citi

CITI

• CBS Radio

CBS RADIO

• Fox Sports

FOX SPORTS

• Paramount

PARAMOUNT

• Target

TARGET

• Warner Brothers

WARNER BROTHERS

JOURNEY PAST GLOBAL BORDERS

We live in a global age, and American business reaches well beyond our national borders. For that reason, we encourage all students enrolled in MSMU Business Administration degree programs to take advantage of the many travel-study opportunities made available each year.

• Earn credits as you travel with Mount professor.
• Learn valuable skills that can be applied to your degree.
• Spend an entire semester at universities across the U.S. and around the world.
• Bring your family members along to join you on these journeys.
• Enjoy locales across the globe.