• Admission & Aid

FINANCIAL AID INFORMATION

Our dedication to college access ensures that your financial circumstances don’t dictate your academic possibilities

We understand that the path to higher education is as unique as the individual embarking on it. That’s why we meet 100% of students’ demonstrated need.

Met through a variety of federal, state, and institutional financial aid sources.

AVERAGE FINANCIAL AID PACKAGE

Our average financial aid package stands at $61,090. This significant investment in your education is an acknowledgment of your potential and of our faith in your capacity to contribute meaningfully to our community and the broader world. With 40% of our Sagehens receiving financial aid assistance, we cultivate a diverse and inclusive community where barriers to education are lowered.

We rank as the #12 Lowest Student Debt liberal arts college nationally (
U.S. News & World Report, 2018
) – a conscious effort to ensure that your academic pursuits lead to personal growth, not financial burden. This effort is testament to our belief in sustainable investment in our students’ futures, reflecting our focus on long-term community well-being.

TYPES OF NEED-BASED AID

• Federal, State and Pitzer Grants: free funds; no repayment required
• Federal Loan Programs: funds you borrow now and repay later
• Federal Work-Study: funds you earn through on-campus employment

FINANCIAL AID DEADLINES

• Early Decision 1: November 15
• Early Decision 2: January 12
• Regular Decision: January 12
• Fall Transfer: April 1
• New Resources: April 1
• Spring Transfer: October 10

HOW TO APPLY

Complete the following steps to apply for financial aid:

• Complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA)
• Complete the CSS Profile to be considered for Pitzer-funded need-based scholarships
• Upload copies of 2024 tax documents to IDOC to verify your income information
Complete the 26-27 FAFSA

Complete the 26-27 CSS Profile

Upload documents to IDOC

LEARN MORE

For more information and resources, visit our Office of Financial Aid.

Our goal is to ensure that financial circumstances never limit academic possibilities, and we continue to seek new ways to make a transformative Pitzer education accessible to all. The Pitzer Opportunity Grant (POG) will provide significant support to help students afford a Pitzer education:

California Residents
Pitzer College will cover 100% of tuition for first-time students with an annual household income and family assets of $120,000 or less, or who qualify for a Cal Grant.

Out-of-State Residents
Pitzer College will cover 100% of tuition for first-time students with an annual household income and family assets of $120,000 or less.

LEARN MORE

Trustee Community Scholarship
A renewable $5,000 per year scholarship; all first-year students who apply are considered.

Academic Achievement Scholarship
A one-time $2,000 scholarship; all first-year students who apply are considered.

LEARN MORE

For more information about scholarship opportunities, visit our Office of Financial Aid.

International applicants interested in need-based financial aid only need to complete our online
Pitzer International Financial Aid Application (PIFAA)
form after submitting their Common Application to Pitzer.
Do NOT
complete the CSS Profile or FAFSA.

DACA/Undocumented Applicants
DACA and Undocumented Applicants interested in financial aid will fill out the
CSS Profile
instead of the FAFSA. If you live in California then you will also complete the
California Dream Act application
. The financial aid office will also need copies of both the student's and parent's tax documents.

Pitzer participates in the Tuition Exchange (TE) program, offering scholarship funds to the dependents of eligible faculty and staff at member schools worldwide. These scholarships are competitive, with only two recipients selected each year.

For the 2025-26 academic year, the TE scholarship was $43,000. This amount is set annually by Tuition Exchange and may increase each year. For more details, please visit the
TE website
.

Eligibility

• Must be the dependent of an eligible parent from a TE participating school.
• Must be an entering student (first-year or transfer). TE is not available to continuing students who were not awarded TE upon admission.
• Must submit the TE application by the Pitzer's application deadlines noted below. Late applications will not be considered.
• Must be seeking their first bachelor's degree.
How to Apply

Eligible students need to apply for admission to Pitzer, complete the TE application process, and
apply for financial aid
(if applicable) by our admission application deadlines:

• Early Decision 1: November 15
• Early Decision 2: January 12
• Regular Decision: January 12
• Fall Transfers/New Resources: April 1
• Spring Transfers: October 10
Tuition exchange is limited, thus, all families seeking assistance are encouraged to apply for need-based financial aid. Use our
Net Price Calculator
and
MyinTuition tools
to help estimate financial aid eligibility.

For questions about the TE application process, contact the TE representative at your parent's home institution. Additional information is also available on the TE website or on our
Financial Aid Grants & Scholarships Page
.

CONTACT US

Financial_Aid@pitzer.edu

(909) 621-8208

Monday–Friday: 8am–12pm & 1pm–5pm