BACHELOR OF ARTS (BA) IN BUSINESS MANAGEMENT

Be at the forefront of today’s competitive marketplace with Azusa Pacific University’s
BA in Business Management, grounded in strategy, ethics, and real-world expertise.

Request Information

• Home
• >
• Programs
• >
• Bachelor of Arts (BA) in Business Management

WHY MAJOR IN BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AT APU?

Azusa Pacific University’s Bachelor of Arts in Business Management program illuminates
your potential and prepares you to lead with integrity and purpose. Our IACBE-accredited
business program delivers a comprehensive education that develops practical skills
and builds your theoretical foundation through experiential learning opportunities
that reflect real-world standards.

Your time as a business management major empowers you to

• apply a Christian worldview to strategic leadership, integrating ethical business
 practices into all of your professional ventures;
• make connections in the business world to expand your professional network and open
 doors to industry opportunities;
• future-proof your résumé with industry-focused credentials and microcredentials that
 showcase your career readiness; and
• develop managerial skills and broad business acumen, ensuring you can work in a diverse
 range of industries.
Review Admission Requirements

Review Admission Requirements

PROGRAM AT A GLANCE

UPCOMING EVENTS

APU One Day

• Saturday, June 13, 2026
• Saturday, July 11, 2026

APPLICATION DEADLINE

At APU, we have rolling admissions. This means we accept and review applications on
a continuous basis.

Apply Now

PROGRAM INFORMATION

• Program Units: 60

LOCATION

• Azusa (Main Campus)
Yellow Ribbon and Military Friendly School

WHAT YOU”LL LEARN

Our business management curriculum combines diverse business coursework with targeted
electives. You’ll study accounting, finance, marketing, data analytics, and more to
learn how these disciplines intersect and impact overall organizational success.

Beyond traditional coursework, you’ll collaborate with classmates on team-based projects
and immersive management experiences that sharpen your ability to lead people and
manage initiatives. These hands-on opportunities strengthen the conceptual, relational,
and technical competencies required to guide public and private sector organizations.

Upon completing the business management program, you’re equipped to

• turn financial and economic data into strategic decisions;
• apply data analytics, spreadsheets, and visualization tools to solve real organizational
 challenges;
• manage diverse teams with Christlike care, intention, and organizational insight;
• craft business plans that strengthen competitive advantage in domestic and global
 markets;
• navigate legal, ethical, and human resource considerations that impact responsible
 business operations; and
• adapt your organization’s processes and operations to improve efficiency, innovation,
 and long-term sustainability.
View Business Management Requirements

GET STARTED

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT PROGRAM DETAILS

Success in today’s marketplace relies on more than business theory—it requires strategic
thinking, ethical leadership, and confidence built through real-world experience.
Azusa Pacific University’s business management program takes a student-first approach,
investing in your academic growth, professional formation, and spiritual development
so you graduate prepared to excel.

As you progress, you’ll learn to navigate complex business environments with strategic
insight while discerning and embracing God’s calling for your life.

During your time in the School of Business and Management, you can strengthen your
academic experience with industry-recognized microcredentials that elevate your professional
development. You can earn more than 25 credentials on platforms such as Formstack,
Tableau, Hootsuite, and Google Digital Garage, which enhance your résumé and signal
measurable, job-ready skills to employers.

Explore APU’s Microcredentials

Azusa Pacific University created a straightforward
undergraduate admissions process
that helps you take the next step toward a purpose-filled education.

If you’re preparing to apply to the BA in Business Management, you must complete the
School of Business and Management’s admission process after you’ve been accepted to
APU. Choose your enrollment path below and review the requirements and next steps.

Have questions along the way?
Connect with our dedicated admissions representatives to get the support you need
.

FIRST-YEAR STUDENTS

To qualify for priority fall admission to the
School of Business and Management
, you must

• complete at least 12 units at APU;
• submit your School of Business and Management application before the March 1 deadline;
• enroll during APU’s spring semester; and
• maintain a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.70.
You must also complete one of the following math courses with a
B-
or better
(
C-
or better for business management majors):

• MATH 110 College Algebra
• MATH 151 Applied Calculus
• MATH 165 Calculus
Note: Upper-division courses (BUSI 300-499) require admission to the School of Business
and Management. Students outside the school may not enroll in these courses unless
their major requires them.

View more details for
first-time freshmen
.

INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS

Along with meeting the
School of Business and Management’s
admissions requirements and completing prerequisite courses, international students
must

• earn a minimum TOEFL score of 600 if English is a second language; and
• include TOEFL Test of Written English (TWE) and TOEFL Test of Spoken English (TSE)
 scores as part of the TOEFL assessment.
View more details for
international students
.

TRANSFER STUDENTS

Planning your transfer to APU? Our streamlined transfer process helps you move confidently
toward earning your bachelor’s degree in business management.

Before enrolling in business courses, you must
schedule an appointment with a School of Business and Management academic advisor
to review degree requirements and plan next steps.

View more details for
transfer students
.

Azusa Pacific University makes a Christ-centered education affordable and accessible.
To help you cover the cost of your business management degree, we offer a range of
financial aid
options, including federal loans, state grants, fellowships, and scholarships.

For more information, contact the
Student Services Center
at (626) 815-2020.

SCHOLARSHIPS AND GRANTS

Scholarships
and
grants
are considered gift aid, meaning they don’t require repayment. These awards may come
from federal, state, institutional, or private sources. Scholarships are often merit-based
and awarded for academic achievement, leadership, or other demonstrated talents.

While APU does award scholarships, you can also find external scholarship opportunities
through websites such as
Finaid
and
Fastweb
.

Contact the
Student Services Center
about scholarships offered through APU departments or local organizations.

STUDENT EMPLOYMENT

Along with gift aid and student loans, you can apply for
on-campus student employment
opportunities to earn additional income to pay for education-related expenses. As
an APU student, you can also find work off campus in the surrounding community.

MILITARY AND VETERANS BENEFITS

If you are a veteran, serve in the military, or qualify as a spouse or dependent,
you may access financial assistance
that helps cover the cost of tuition, housing, and books. As a
Yellow Ribbon and Military Friendly School
, APU offers the support and flexibility needed to help you complete your bachelor’s
degree in business management.

NET PRICE CALCULATOR

We’re here to help you understand the value of the APU experience early in the college
search process. Once you’ve explored the financial aid opportunities available, take
the next step by estimating your cost to attend. The Net Price Calculator provides
a personalized estimate based on the information you share, so you can start planning
today!

Calculate Net Price

At APU, we’re committed to delivering the highest quality education, backed by respected
accreditation and academic excellence. Azusa Pacific University is accredited by the
WASC Senior College and University Commission (WSCUC)
.

Additionally, the School of Business and Management receives accreditation from the
International Accreditation Council for Business Education (IACBE)
.

BY THE NUMBERS

CAREER OUTCOMES FOR BUSINESS MANAGEMENT MAJORS

Local, national, and global businesses need competent leaders to guide teams and drive
results.

As a graduate of APU’s BA in Business Management program, you can step confidently
into entry-level management roles such as supervisor, team lead, or shift manager,
as well as staff specialist and administrative positions. Your broad business foundation
and applied expertise position you to pursue opportunities in industries ranging from
retail, sales, and commercial banking to real estate, entertainment, supply chain
management, and logistics.

If you have a distinct vision, you can channel your entrepreneurial drive into launching
and leading your own venture. Wherever God calls you, you’re prepared to support organizations,
develop innovative products, and make a lasting impact on the people and communities
around you.

BAILEY WILSON ’18: IF THE LORD LEAVES A DOOR OPEN, RUN THROUGH IT

With a business management degree from Azusa Pacific University, Bailey Wilson ’18
cultivated her calling into a thriving entrepreneurial venture, Bondi Bowls.

Read More About Bailey

A TRANSFORMATIONAL EDUCATION TO ADVANCE YOUR CAREER

With APU’s Bachelor of Arts in Business Management, you’ll be positioned to achieve
more. Through rigorous, interdisciplinary business education and real-world experiences
that forge new skills and professional connections, you’ll undergo holistic growth
to launch a career that impacts the world around you.

Ready to pursue God’s call on your life? Apply to APU today.

Apply Now

RELATED PROGRAMS

MARKETING MAJOR

• Azusa

ACCOUNTING MAJOR

• Azusa

FINANCE MAJOR

• Azusa