JOIN THE PACK

JOIN THE PACK!

Welcome to Cal State San Bernardino! Whether you’re starting college for the first time, transferring from another school, joining us as an international or graduate student, or coming in as a veteran, CSUSB is ready to guide you every step of the way on your path to becoming a Coyote. From applying to your first day of classes, you’ll find the resources, support and community you need to succeed. You belong here — and we can’t wait to see what you’ll achieve.

STUDENT SPOTLIGHT

LESLIE

Major: Spanish

"CSUSB has a strong sense of community. Every student makes the school and the environment feel like home. This feeling of belonging, fellowship and pride is what makes CSUSB special."

WHERE ARE YOU IN YOUR JOURNEY?

Pick the description that fits you best.

Explore CSUSB’s programs, campus life, and resources for future Coyotes.

You’ve been admitted — now complete your steps to officially join the Pack.

Access the tools, resources and support you need while enrolled.

Coming back to CSUSB? We’ll help you pick up where you left off and keep moving forward.

Learn more about resources, programs and community at Palm Desert Campus.

Learn how CSUSB supports you and your student as they begin their college journey.

DISCOVER CSUSB – WHAT SETS US APART

CSUSB BY THE NUMBERS

ABOUT CSUSB

Cal State San Bernardino, set at the foothills of the beautiful San Bernardino Mountains, is a vibrant hub of education and culture in Inland Southern California. The university offers more than 70 traditional baccalaureate and master’s degree programs, education credential and certificate programs, and a doctoral program, all housed within five academic colleges and the Palm Desert Campus.

Not only is a degree from CSUSB affordable and attainable, it is also a pathway to a brighter future.
Ranked No. 2 nationally for social mobility
by the Wall Street Journal
, CSUSB helps students rise to great opportunities, securing high-paying jobs while keeping costs low.