TUITION AND FEES

Attending UCLA is a valuable investment in your future. In fact, in 2025,
Forbes
ranked UCLA the No. 4 best value university in the nation, considering price, average student debt, future earnings, education quality and other factors.

ESTIMATED UNDERGRADUATE STUDENT BUDGET

Some or all instruction for all or part of the academic year may be delivered remotely. Tuition and fees have been set regardless of the method of instruction and will not be refunded in the event instruction occurs remotely for any part of the academic year.

Figures for tuition and fees represent currently approved or proposed amounts and may not be final. Actual tuition and fees are subject to change by the University of California as determined to be necessary or appropriate. Final approved tuition and fee levels may differ from the amounts presented.

The University of California Board of Regents approved a multiyear
Tuition Stability Plan
on July 22, 2021. The plan helps students and families budget for a UC education by keeping UC tuition stable and predictable and providing new resources for financial aid.

Updated March 2026

* The UC SHIP health insurance requirement and fees can be waived if a student already has adequate insurance coverage.

RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS AND TUITION

As the nation’s premier public research university, UCLA is grateful to the people of California. Residents contribute to state education funding and are responsible for the continued existence of this special California institution.

As a result, the tuition you pay depends on your residency status, which is determined by a specific process. California residency for tuition is not the same as other definitions of California residency.

If your parents are not California residents, then the financial independence requirement makes it extremely difficult for most undergraduates to qualify for classification as a California resident at UCLA. This includes students from community colleges and other post-secondary institutions within the state.

Transfer students who were classified as residents of California at their previous school should not assume that they’ll be classified as residents here.

If you’re unsure whether you qualify for in-state tuition at UCLA, visit the UC’s residency requirements page for more information.

PAYING FOR YOUR EDUCATION

We’re proud to offer a generous financial aid program. For more information, visit the financial aid page.