WELCOME TO THE FINANCIAL AID OFFICE

Welcome to NOMA Nation!

Sonoma State University knows pursuing a higher education degree is expensive.  Investing in a quality education is an investment in your future. Our goal is to provide access to quality education at SSU by assisting students in obtaining and understanding financial aid options. The Financial Aid Office at SSU is committed to assisting current and prospective students with the financial aid process in obtaining funds for college through federal, state and institutional sources.

We communicate with you by sending emails when items are added to your To-Do List in MySSU or changes are made to your award offer. Award offer notifications are sent to your SSU email as well. We encourage you to check your SSU email on a regular basis and follow the instructions provided.  Documents submitted late could result in missed deadlines and a reduced financial aid award (or no award at all).

Please use the
Contact Us
and
Cómo Comunicarse
pages of our website to contact us with any questions you may have.

ANNOUNCEMENTS

The Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and CA Dream Act Application (CADAA) are now open for the 26/27 academic year. To receive the maximum aid, be sure to apply by the priority deadline of March 2, 2026.

The Middle Class Scholarship (MCS) is a state-funded grant program administered by the California Student Aid Commission (CSAC). Students selected to receive an MCS award will be notified directly by CSAC via email in late August.

Sonoma State University will add MCS awards to eligible students’ financial aid packages in mid to late September, and students will receive a revised award notification once the update is made. MCS awards will disburse in October, after the semester census date.

Award amounts may be reduced if a student is not enrolled full-time or becomes eligible for additional federal, state, institutional, or external aid after the initial award is made.

If adjustments are required due to exceeding a student’s financial need or cost of attendance, loans will be reduced first, with grants and scholarships adjusted only if necessary.

If you or your family’s financial situation has changed significantly from what is reflected on your federal income tax return (for example, if you’ve lost a job or otherwise experienced a drop in income), you may be eligible to have your financial aid adjusted. After completing the FAFSA questions as instructed on the application (including the transfer of tax return and income information), contact the Financial Aid Office at Sonoma State.