WELCOME TO THE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS AT SONOMA STATE UNIVERSITY!

At Sonoma State University's School of Business, our mission is to inspire our community of students, faculty, staff, and alumni every day. We are committed to changing the world by growing leaders who are courageous, curious, and kind. Sonoma State students make a difference through data insights, entrepreneurship, and purpose-driven business in the fields of: Accounting, Analytics, Finance, Marketing, Management, and Wine Business.

We are proud to be an integral part of the College of Science, Technology, and Business, working together to empower students with the knowledge, skills, and ethical grounding necessary for success in today’s dynamic world.

OUR SHARED VISION

Sonoma State's University School of Business and the College of Science, Technology, and Business share a commitment to empowering students with the knowledge, skills, and ethical grounding necessary for success. By fostering innovation, collaboration, academic excellence, and experiential learning, we prepare graduates to lead with integrity and drive positive change in society.

OUR CORE VALUES AND STRATEGY

Our Values:
Our core values serve as guiding principles for how we lead. They represent our commitment to excellence and bringing our best selves to everything we do. Courage, curiosity, and kindness are at the heart of our efforts to develop leaders who can transform the world.

Our Strategy:
Our mission requires a bold strategy. By unlocking the potential of every student, we align business and society to be connected to long-term value, including the differentiated needs it addresses for all its stakeholders. We are dedicated to helping our students thrive through data insights, entrepreneurship, and purpose-driven business practices.

JOIN US

Explore our programs, meet our dedicated faculty, and discover how the School of Business at Sonoma State University can help you achieve your academic and professional goals. Together, we are shaping the future of business with innovation, collaboration, and ethical leadership.

We look forward to hearing from you over the next year and seeing your success stories in action.

Sincerely,

Dean Wade

ANNOUNCEMENTS

The School of Business front office is ready to assist faculty, staff, and students.

Hours:
Monday-Friday, 8am-5pm

Office:
Stevenson 2700
Email:
Contact Us
Phone:
(707) 664-2377

RECENT EVENTS

Check out photos from our recent
Strategic Management Society 2025 Conference Extension
on
Purposeful Progress: Competing for Customers and Capital in a World of Trillion-Dollar Firms
!

INCLUSIVE EXCELLENCE

In the School of Business at Sonoma State University (SSU), we recognize that our community's success rests on how the School of Business values, engages, and includes the diversity of students, faculty, staff, and alumni. We aim to achieve equity in access, student success, and high-quality learning for each of our students. To do so, we know we cannot do it alone, and that is why we seek collaboration, partnership, and investment from our community.

More on Inclusive Excellence

CAMPUS MAP