BREADCRUMB

TUITION & FEES

REGISTRATION FEE RATES & INFORMATION

IMPORTANT FEE DEADLINES

Spring 2026

Fall 2026

ADDITIONAL FEE RELATED INFORMATION

The CSU makes every effort to keep student costs to a minimum.  Fees listed in published schedules or student accounts may need to be increased when public funding is inadequate.  Therefore, CSU must reserve the right, even after fees are initially charged or initial fee payments are made, to increase or modify any listed fees.  All listed fees, other than mandatory systemwide fees, are subject to change without notice, until the date when instruction for a particular semester or quarter has begun.
All CSU listed fees should be regarded as estimates that are subject to change upon approval by the Board of Trustees, the Chancellor, or the Presidents, as appropriate.
Changes in mandatory systemwide fees will be made in accordance with the requirements of the Working Families Student Fee Transparency and Accountability Act
(Sections 66028 - 66028.6 of the Education Code).

For more information about the multi-year (2023-29) tuition increase, please visit the
California State University website
.

IMMEDIATE ACCESS TEXTBOOK PROGRAM

Immediate Access is a program focused around improving student learning, course material accessibility, and student outcomes. Cal Poly Humboldt and the Cal Poly Humboldt Bookstore have partnered with publishers to get students the lowest possible pricing for their course materials, which will be delivered directly through Canvas prior to class start.

For more information about this program, please visit the
Bookstore website
.

GRADGUARD TUITION INSURANCE

We have partnered with GradGuard to provide
optional
tuition insurance for students who withdraw from the university for covered reasons. For more information and to receive a quote, visit the GradGuard
website
.

STUDENT FEE ADVISORY COMMITTEE

The Student Fee Advisory Committee (SFAC) is an administrative committee composed of students, staff, faculty, and an administrative representative with the responsibility to advise the president regarding the establishment and adjustment of campus mandatory and course-based fees in accordance with the provisions of the Chancellor's Executive Order 1102. For more information about the SFAC, please visit the
website
.