SUMMER 2026 DISBURSEMENTS BEGIN ON MAY 27TH!

Click here for more information regarding the Summer financial aid disbursement process

OFFICE OF STUDENT FINANCIAL AID

OUR MISSION

The Office of Student Financial Aid
(OSFA)
strives to support students throughout the financial aid process. OSFA has the overall responsibility of administering Federal or State financial aid and Scholarships awards at San Francisco State University. We determine the eligibility, awarding, and the conditions in which these awards may be disbursed. Our office is open to all, and anyone interested in our activities and resources is welcome regardless of race, sex, color, ethnicity, or national origin.

We communicate with our students via their
SF State E-mail
and
SF State Gateway
. To keep yourself up to date -
Make sure to check both regularly.

THE PATH TO AID

FINANCIAL AID SPOTLIGHT

SUMMER 2026 DISBURSEMENTS ARE STARTING SOON!

For students who have successfully reported their Summer units and have been awarded their financial aid package for that semester, our first Summer disbursement will be on
Wednesday - May 28
. For any other important information regarding the Summer financial aid process, please feel free to review the link provided right below.
Click here for a complete guide regarding the Summer financial aid process

For students who have successfully reported their Summer units and have been awarded their financial aid package for that semester, our first Summer disbursement will be on
Wednesday - May 28
. For any other important information regarding the Summer financial aid process, please feel free to review the link provided right below.

Click here for a complete guide regarding the Summer financial aid process

ANNOUNCEMENTS

• 2026-2027 FAFSA corrections are on PAUSE!
• Spring 2026 payment dates to KNOW!
• Spring 2026 disbursements are ENDING!
• 2025-2026 Financial aid awards are POSTED!
• Which department do I contact?
Due to Federal system updates, our office has temporarily stopped processing any corrections made to the 2026-27 FAFSA. We anticipate to resume processing during the
month of July
. Unfortunately, students who have not submitted their verification paperwork will have to wait until that month in order to have their file reviewed and awarded their aid.

We thank you for your continued patience and understanding!

Students owing current or past due charges will not be able to register for their classes. They will have to work with one of these two offices directly regarding making payments so that they may be able to add their classes for future semesters:

For any students registered in their Spring classes but have not yet received their financial aid for the semester, our final disbursement date for Spring aid will be on
Wednesday - May 13
. For more information regarding the Spring disbursement process, please click on the link provided down below.

Official awards for the 2025-2026 school year (Fall 2025 & Spring 2026) have been posted for students who successfully completed these two steps:

• File a 2025-2026 financial aid application (FAFSA or CADAA)
• Listed SF State as their top school of choice (School Code: 001154 )
If you still have not been awarded anything or the awards in your Student Center are listed as
"Estimated,"
then please refer to your To Do List in your SF State Gateway for any pending financial aid related items because your financial aid application may have been selected for Verification
(Further review)
.

For more information on how the Verification process works or to begin/edit your financial aid application, please click on the links provided down below.

Please click on the link listed down below in order to determine which office you need to contact so that you may receive the assistance you are seeking for.

HIGHLIGHTED RESOURCES

EVENTS