THE OFFICE OF FINANCIAL AID

IMPORTANT UPDATES

• 2026-27 CADAA and FAFSA are still available for submission! Those submitted by March 3, 2026 will be considered for the maximum aid based on your eligibility but you can still submit them.
• Get a head start on your financial future! 💸 Titan Hub is hosting a workshop on Tuesdy, April 7, 2026 that breaks down the essentials of financial wellness—what it is, why it matters, and how it impacts your daily life. You’ll walk away with simple, practical tips to start building smarter money habits and boosting your financial confidence.

OUR MISSION

The Cal State Fullerton Office of Financial Aid provides students with the financial resources and related services necessary to achieve their educational goals. We are committed to providing accurate, user-friendly, responsive, and respectful service to students and their families.
We administer federal, state, and university aid in accordance with applicable policies and regulations while striving to be an innovative and service-minded department. We also work closely with the
Titan Hub
to provide outreach and services in collaboration with other university departments and the community.

APPLYING FOR AID

APPEALS & FORMS

MAINTAINING ELIGIBILITY

SUMMER AID

FEDERAL WORK STUDY

Frequently Asked Questions

Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Crime Statistics Act Notification

Pursuant to the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act, the current
Annual Security Report (ASR)
is available for viewing. This report contains the current security and safety-related policy statements, emergency preparedness and evacuation information, crime prevention and sexual assault prevention information, and drug and alcohol prevention programming. The ASR also contains statistics of Clery Act crimes for California State University, Fullerton for the last three (3) calendar years. Paper copies are available upon request at the CSUF Police Department.

Notice of Non-Discrimination on the Basis of Gender or Sex and Contact Information for Title IX Coordinator