ABOUT OUR PROGRAM

A Bachelor of Science degree in neuroscience at SCU will provide students with the scientific foundation needed to understand the nervous system at many levels, from the molecular level to patient symptomatology. Students will use interdisciplinary approaches to examine the biological, computational, and psychological underpinnings of the nervous system. Students will come to appreciate the interactions between neurological and environmental factors in contributing to disease, disorders, and development. They will be challenged to consider ethical issues in neuroscience research and practice. Students who graduate with a neuroscience major will be prepared for diverse careers in health care, policy, business, law, biomedical, and clinical research or graduate-level studies in neuroscience-related disciplines.

FACULTY & STAFF

• Professor John Birmingham Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley, 1996
Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley, 1996

Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley, 1996

• Manager Janet Borrison 408-551-3954
408-551-3954

BEYOND THE CLASSROOM

NEWS & EVENTS

OUR STORIES

• REAL Science, Real Impact: Katilin Webster's SCU Story Weaving together science, social justice, and creativity, Kaitlin Webster ’25 has made the most of her time at SCU, showcasing her commitment to both community and curiosity.
Weaving together science, social justice, and creativity,
Kaitlin Webster ’25
has made the most of her time at SCU, showcasing her commitment to both community and curiosity.

• Emma Hatfield Advances Justice and Equity Through IRC Internship Through her REAL Program summer internship, Emma Hatfield ’26 combined her passion for social justice and neuroscience to support refugee families in Boise, Idaho.
Through her REAL Program summer internship, Emma Hatfield ’26 combined her passion for social justice and neuroscience to support refugee families in Boise, Idaho.

LIFE AFTER SCU

ALUMNI STORIES

Interview of Meghana Reddy '22 by Will Story '26

Interview of Meghan Kennedy '20 by Vivian Shao '22

This article was written as a summary of an interview between Alex Quan and Will Thompson during the Neuroscience Capstone class in Winter 2022. Will Thompson graduated with a B.S. in Neuroscience with a minor in Biology in June 2022.

FOLLOW US ON SOCIAL MEDIA