BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (BS) IN COMPUTER SCIENCE

Pursue innovation and discover your God-given potential with a Bachelor of Science
in Computer Science from Azusa Pacific University.

Request Information

• Home
• >
• Programs
• >
• Bachelor of Science (BS) in Computer Science

WHY MAJOR IN COMPUTER SCIENCE AT APU?

Challenge yourself and expand your technical expertise with APU’s Bachelor of Science
in Computer Science. Our hands-on program builds your critical thinking and problem-solving
skills, empowering you to lead in high-demand fields such as software development,
systems programming, data analysis, and computer design.

Throughout the computer science degree program, you’ll

• design and build computer systems that solve complex, real-world problems;
• study the breadth of the computer industry—from foundational theory to emerging technologies
 and beyond;
• develop a strong foundation in calculus, discrete mathematics, computing fundamentals,
 operating systems, database management, and data structures;
• explore cutting-edge fields such as artificial intelligence, cybersecurity, and the
 Internet of Things;
• accelerate your academic journey by earning your bachelor’s in computer science and
 a master’s degree in biotechnology or applied statistics and data science; and
• strengthen your research expertise by collaborating with accomplished faculty on real-world
 projects.
Review Admission Requirements

PROGRAM AT A GLANCE

UPCOMING EVENTS

APU One Day

• Saturday, June 13, 2026
• Saturday, July 11, 2026

APPLICATION DEADLINE

At APU, we have rolling admissions. This means we accept and review applications on
a continuous basis.

Apply Now

PROGRAM INFORMATION

• Program Units: 72-75

LOCATION

• Azusa (Main Campus)
Yellow Ribbon and Military Friendly School

WHAT YOU”LL LEARN

Through our holistic approach, APU’s computer science curriculum integrates traditional
coursework, collaborative team projects, presentations, and labs. You’ll gain an in-depth
understanding of computer systems and their problem-solving capabilities, as well
as advanced topics such as AI, cybersecurity, the Internet of Things, and application
development.

As you advance through the computer science program, you build the knowledge and experience
to

• design and build software systems using programming, data structures, algorithms,
 and software engineering principles;
• understand computer systems from the ground up, including operating systems, networks,
 databases, and computer architecture;
• apply advanced mathematics and analytical reasoning to solve complex computing problems;
• grow as an effective STEM communicator by refining your oral presentations and developing
 diverse writing skills to produce journal articles, technical reports, and popular
 media; and
• navigate an increasingly complex field through ethical decision making and a Christian
 worldview.
With these skills, you’ll be ready to lead in the global technology workforce.

View Computer Science Requirements

View Computer Science Requirements

GET STARTED

COMPUTER SCIENCE PROGRAM DETAILS

As an applied science field, computer science centers on design and synthesis—on how
systems and solutions should be built to solve real-world problems. APU’s computer
science major equips you with the technical foundation, analytical mindset, and Christian
worldview to create innovative technologies and software that shape what’s next.

Expedite your journey to graduate education by pairing a
Master of Science in Biotechnology
with your BS in Computer Science. This five-year program accelerates your learning
and prepares you to apply your technical expertise and make an impact in the growing
field of biomedical product development.

To earn your BS in Computer Science and MS in Biotechnology, you’ll

• complete up to 9 units of graduate coursework during your undergraduate studies; and
• finish the remaining 30 units for the master’s degree over the next year
You’ll take three courses—Bioinformatics, Introduction to Modeling with Probability,
and Ethics for Biomedical Products Industries or Ethics in Computing and Engineering—as
an undergraduate student that count toward the BS in Computer Science and MS in Biotechnology
degrees.

If you have a 3.0 GPA or higher, you may apply to the MS in Biotechnology program
during your junior year. The graduate application fee will be waived.

PROGRAM EDUCATIONAL OBJECTIVES

Graduates of the program are expected to attain these objectives within a few years
after graduation:

• Core Technical Competencies and Lifelong Learning: Our graduates will demonstrate effective use of their core technical competencies
 in computer science through progressive advancement in their professional careers,
 including, in many cases, mastery of emerging technologies, pursuit of different specialization
 areas, attainment of advanced degrees, or professional licensure or certifications.
• Effective Teamwork: Our graduates will work effectively as team members and leaders in diverse professional
 environments and career paths.
• Impact of Computing Technology: Our graduates will demonstrate, in their professional careers, a clear understanding
 of the impact of computing technology in a global and societal context and its implications
 from a Christian ethics perspective.

STUDENT OUTCOMES

Upon completing the BS in Computer Science program, you’ll be able to

• analyze a complex computing problem and apply principles of computing and other relevant
 disciplines to identify solutions;
• design, implement, and evaluate a computing-based solution to meet a given set of
 computing requirements in the context of the program’s discipline;
• communicate effectively in a variety of professional contexts;
• recognize professional responsibilities and make informed judgments in computing practice
 based on legal and ethical principles;
• function effectively as a member or leader of a team engaged in activities appropriate
 to the program’s discipline; and
• apply computer science theory and software development fundamentals to produce computing-based
 solutions.
We created a straightforward
undergraduate admissions process
that helps you take the next step toward a purpose-filled education.

The prerequisites and required next steps for applying to APU may vary depending on
your student type. For more detailed admissions information, select your enrollment
path:

• First-time Freshman
• Transfer Student
• International Student
Azusa Pacific University makes a Christ-centered education affordable and accessible.
To help you cover the cost of your computer science bachelor’s degree, we offer a
range of
financial aid
options, including federal loans, state grants, fellowships, and scholarships.

For more information, contact the
Student Services Center
at (626) 815-2020.

SCHOLARSHIPS AND GRANTS

Scholarships
and
grants
are considered gift aid, meaning they do not require repayment. These awards may
come from federal, state, institutional, or private sources. Scholarships are often
merit-based and awarded for academic achievement, leadership, or other demonstrated
talents.

While APU does award scholarships, you can also find external scholarship opportunities
through websites such as
Finaid
and
Fastweb
.

Contact the
Student Services Center
about scholarships offered through APU departments or local organizations.

STUDENT EMPLOYMENT

Along with gift aid and student loans, you can apply for
on-campus student employment
opportunities to earn additional income to pay for education-related expenses. As
an APU student, you can also find work off campus in the surrounding community.

MILITARY AND VETERANS BENEFITS

If you are a veteran, serve in the military, or qualify as a spouse or dependent,
you may access financial assistance
that helps cover the cost of tuition, housing, and books. As a
Yellow Ribbon and Military Friendly School
, APU offers the support and flexibility needed to help you complete your bachelor’s
degree in computer science.

NET PRICE CALCULATOR

We’re here to help you understand the value of the APU experience early in the college
search process. Once you’ve explored the financial aid opportunities available, take
the next step by estimating your cost to attend. The Net Price Calculator provides
a personalized estimate based on the information you share, so you can start planning
today!

Calculate Net Price

At APU, we’re committed to delivering the highest quality education, backed by respected
accreditation and academic excellence. Azusa Pacific University is accredited by the
WASC Senior College and University Commission (WSCUC)
.

BY THE NUMBERS

CAREER OUTCOMES FOR COMPUTER SCIENCE MAJORS

From government agencies to healthcare providers to financial institutions, industries
worldwide rely on computer scientists to secure and scale their digital infrastructure.
Earning a Bachelor of Science in Computer Science positions you as a competitive candidate
ready to apply your programming and system design skills to craft solutions and drive
innovation.

The technical expertise and analytical perspective you develop empower you to pursue
a wide range of career roles, including:

• Cybersecurity analyst
• Data and financial analyst
• High school computer science and math teacher
• Scientific programmer
• Software engineer
• Systems administrator

STUDENT PORTRAITS: MATTHEW PERERA ’20, COMPUTER SCIENCE

Explore how Matthew Perera ’20 had the unique opportunity to apply his technical knowledge
on a mission trip to Namibia, showcasing how a computer science degree can be a powerful
tool for global service and ministry.

DEPARTMENT OF COMPUTER SCIENCE, ENGINEERING, MATHEMATICS, PHYSICS, AND STATISTICS
 FACULTY

At APU, you’ll learn from industry leaders who invest in your success. Our faculty
mentors share expertise and care, guiding your academic and professional journey so
you can achieve more than you ever imagined.

LU RUAN

Associate Professor, Department of Computer Science, Engineering, Math, Physics, and Statistics

Meet Your Faculty

STEP INTO YOUR COMPUTER SCIENCE CALLING AT APU

With an immersive, career-focused approach, the Bachelor of Science in Computer Science
degree program at Azusa Pacific University sets your future into motion. Our hands-on
curriculum enhances your technical expertise, problem-solving skills, and leadership
qualities, so you can thrive wherever God leads you.

Excited for the opportunities ahead? Apply to APU today!

Apply Now

Apply Now

RELATED PROGRAMS

ENGINEERING MAJOR

• Azusa
Available Concentrations:

Mechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Computer Engineering

BUSINESS ANALYTICS MAJOR

• Azusa
Available Concentrations:

Accounting, Economics, Finance, Marketing

APPLIED MATHEMATICS MAJOR

• Azusa
Available Concentrations:

Standard Applied Mathematics Track, Actuarial Science, Computer Science, Physics, Statistics and Data Science