• Home
• Admissions & Aid
• Costs & Financial Aid
• Tuition and Fees

UNDERGRADUATE TUITION & FEES

• Cost of Attendance Calculator
Attending Cal State Monterey Bay is more affordable than you might think. And, ranked #1 for social mobility in the West by U.S. News & World Report, it’s an education with lasting value.

As you explore the figures listed on this page, it’s important to consider that the published estimated cost of attendance is not what most students pay. The majority of CSUMB students receive some form of financial aid, including need-based grants and scholarships.

UNDERGRADUATE TUITION & FEES - 2026-2027 ACADEMIC YEAR

Credits

Per Semester

Per Academic Year

More than 6 units

$3,419

$6,838

0-6 units

$1981

$3,962

Refer to the
current catalog
for a list of campus-specific fees

COST OF ATTENDANCE

The cost of attendance (COA) is based on the estimated cost of a typical student's tuition and fees, books and supplies, room and board, transportation, and personal expenses for a nine-month academic year (fall and spring semester). While individual costs may vary, the COA reflects a modest living allowance; the figures below align with recommended standard student budgets.

2026-2027 ACADEMIC YEAR (TWO SEMESTERS)

Item

Living With Parents

Living On Campus

Living On Campus with Dependents

Living Off Campus

Tuition

Campus Fees

Books, course materials, supplies, and equipment

Housing

Food

Transportation

Personal

ESTIMATED COST OF ATTENDANCE

A standardized set of budgets is used as the basis for determining the cost of attendance at Monterey Bay. The figures used for all categories (except Tuition & Fees and On Campus Room & Board) represent the average expenses reported by Monterey Bay students in the 2021
Student Expenses and Resources Survey
(SEARS).

• Tuition & Mandatory Fees : Cost paid to Monterey Bay for courses, includes mandatory campus fees. This figure is based off anticipated enrollment in 7 or more units.
• Living Expenses (Food and Housing) : The average cost per academic year to live in the Monterey County
• Commuter Food and Housing: reflects the lower costs of living at home.
• On-Campus Food and Housing (Residence Halls): On-Campus Room and Board is the average housing contract amount plus the 21-meal option
• Off-Campus Food and Housing: Off-campus Room and Board
• Books, Course Materials, Supplies, and Equipment : The average amount students spend on books and educational supplies.
• Transportation : The average transportation cost between campus, residences, and place of work (includes bus fare, gasoline, tolls, parking, etc.)
• Personal Expenses : The average amount for personal expenses which includes clothing, personal care, cell phone plan, and health care costs not covered by insurance.
• Federal Direct Loan Fees : For students who borrow a Direct Loan, the average cost of the loan origination fee; for parents who borrow a Direct PLUS loan on behalf of their dependent student, the actual cost of the PLUS loan origination fee.
2026 HUB

• One-bedroom apartment: $2,295
• Two-bedroom apartment: $2,760
• Renting a Room in a Private Home: $1,380

HOW FINANCIAL AID FACTORS INTO COA

Remember: Financial aid programs like grants, loans, scholarships, and work study, can help offset the cost of attending college.

At Cal State Monterey Bay, we rely on a federal formula to review every student's financial circumstances and calculate financial aid eligibility according to the Student Aid Index (SAI) formerly known as Expected Family Contribution (EFC) and cost of attendance. The SAI is determined by the FAFSA:

COA - SAI = Financial Aid Eligibility

For example, a student living on campus and enrolled full-time has a cost of attendance of $28,717. Suppose the SAI is $3,000. In that case, the financial aid office will subtract the SAI from the cost of attendance to determine financial aid eligibility:

$28,717 - $3,000 = eligibility of $25,717

Tip: Use our
Cost of Attendance Calculator
to run some numbers based on your individual circumstances.

• The period for which dependent care is required includes, but is not limited to, class-time, study-time, field work, internships, and commuting time.
• Such allowance must not exceed the reasonable cost in the community in which the student resides for the kind of care provided
2025 - 2026 Cost of Attendance

The Cost of Attendance (COA) represents the projected expenses a typical student may incur during a standard nine-month academic year, covering the fall and spring semesters. It includes estimated amounts for tuition and fees, books and supplies, housing and meals, transportation, and personal expenses. View the
2025 - 2026 academic year Cost of Attendance
.

SCHOLARSHIP SUPPORT & SUCCESS AT CSUMB

Bernice Lemus, a first-generation college student and business major, received the Hilda Holl Memorial Scholarship. This award allowed Bernice to embrace every academic and extracurricular opportunity that came her way at Cal State Monterey Bay.

"Walking around campus… I sometimes cannot believe how far I’ve come. I will set an example for others in my shoes and show them that success is possible no matter where you come from."

Berenice Lemus ’24

Business with concentrations in accounting and information systems

CONTACT FINANCIAL AID

If you have questions about tuition, fees, and financial aid, we’re here to help.

REQUEST INFO

Request Information about admissions and aid to attend Cal State Monterey Bay

OFFICE OF FINANCIAL AID

Financial Aid contact

• financialaid@csumb.edu
• 831-582-4074