LATIN AMERICAN STUDIES MINOR

Latin American studies is an interdisciplinary field dedicated to the exploration of the diverse cultures, histories, politics, and societies of Latin America and the Caribbean. This program provides students with a comprehensive understanding of the region's rich cultural heritage, complex social dynamics, and its role in the global context.

DEGREES OFFERED

Degree concentration

PROGRAM TYPES

Undergraduate, Minor

MODE OF STUDY

On Campus

DEPARTMENT

SCHOOL / COLLEGE

WHAT IS A LATIN AMERICAN STUDIES MINOR?

Latin American studies brings together knowledge from the humanities, (e.g., languages, literature, film studies, history), the social sciences (e.g., anthropology, sociology, political science, political geography, communication/language sciences), and environmental studies to allow students to build a foundation in the aesthetic, cultural, economic, environmental, geographical, historical, linguistic, political, and social contexts of Latin America.

In addition to providing breadth in Latin American studies through coursework across multiple disciplines, the program also emphasizes depth in understanding through study abroad and a concentration in a focused problem, topic, area, discipline, or method. Students develop language skills, cross-cultural understanding, an interdisciplinary approach, and the ability to incorporate Latin American perspectives in their analysis of fields including art, development, environmental conservation, history, language, literature, and politics.

WHY SHOULD YOU MINOR IN LATIN AMERICAN STUDIES AT REDLANDS?

A minor in Latin American Studies prepares students to work with corporations, governmental and non-governmental organizations, educational institutions, medical organizations, and nonprofit advocacy organizations.  The program also provides a deeper understanding of our neighbors to the south as well as populations in the U.S. who are immigrants or descendants of those regions.

Faculty who teach in the program have expertise in areas such as anthropology, environmental studies, film studies, geography, history, library science, linguistics/language science, literature, political science, and sociology.  Many of the faculty are active in research, scholarship, and service in Latin American countries, and involve Redlands students in these activities.  In addition, the faculty teach several travel courses in Latin America each year, on a variety of topics, as well as courses on the Redlands campus and the local community.

Courses cover diverse topics such as conservation and Geographic Information Systems in Panama, Latin American literature and film, bilingualism in indigenous communities in Guatemala, and several other areas.

CLASSES YOU'LL TAKE

To view specific classes, program requirements, and coursework information, visit the
current university catalog
.

Department of Latin American Studies

FIND US ON CAMPUS

Hall of Letters

THE CORE FOUR FRAMEWORK

At Redlands, our students’ success is at the heart of everything we do. We offer experiential learning opportunities, but our Core Four initiative takes that commitment to a deeper, intentional level. More than a set of experiences, the Core Four is a framework for transformation. Learn more about how students can prepare for their academic journey.