Financial Aid and Scholarships at Cal State LA is committed to helping students navigate the financial aid process through comprehensive support. We collaborate closely with students to assess their eligibility for various forms of financial assistance and clearly outline the specific requirements for each grant or loan program. Our team administers Federal and State grants, as well as additional forms of aid, to help alleviate educational expenses.

The 2026-2027 FAFSA and CA Dream Act Application are available for submission. The Cal State LA priority filing deadline was March 2, 2026. Cal State LA School Code: 001140

ANNOUNCEMENTS

FEDERAL FINANCIAL AID UPDATES

On July 4, 2025, the
One Big Beautiful Bill Act (OBBBA)
was signed into law, introducing significant changes to federal student aid programs. Beginning July 1, 2026, several important updates will reshape how students and families plan and pay for higher education. For more information, students are encouraged to review the
Federal Student Aid Update
section on the CSU website.

APPLYING FOR AID

Your Financial Aid journey consists of 3 steps:

• Apply early!
• Understand your offer
• Accept and manage your aid
File your FAFSA at:
Federal Student Aid Website

File your CADAA at:
California Student Aid Commission Website

Federal Student Aid has created a
video playlist
covering the entire process of how to complete a FAFSA application.

The Cal State LA priority deadline for FAFSA and CADAA was March 2, 2026.  We encourage you to submit an application even if you missed the priority deadline.

FINANCIAL AID & HOUSING

If you plan to live on campus and are unsure if your Financial Aid Award will cover your housing costs, we recommend you visit the
Housing & Residence Life Website
for housing and meal costs.  Once you determine the cost of housing and meals, refer to your GET Account to determine if you qualified for sufficient Financial Aid to cover your housing and meals.

You can also estimate your costs via the
Cal State LA Net Price Calculator
. The Net Price Calculator is intended to estimate costs for students.  All awards produced by this calculator are estimated. If you provide inaccurate information, the result will be inaccurate.

FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS

For Frequently Asked Questions about financial aid, admissions, student services, visit the
FAQ Website.

ONLINE SERVICES

Access Student Forms

Submit FA Advising Request

Meet with a Financial Aid Advisor

Important Deadlines

Financial Aid Videos

Managing My Aid