SCHOLARSHIPS FOR ADULTS NONTRADITIONAL STUDENTS

Get equipped with the resources that will help you navigate your learning journey.

KEY TAKEAWAYS

• Adults returning to college can apply for scholarships tailored to career changers, parents, veterans, and low-income students.
• Many awards do not have age limits and support associate, bachelor’s, or certificate programs at accredited institutions.
• Completing the FAFSA can help adult learners and nontraditional students access scholarships, grants, and aid that reduce the need for student loans.
The
cost of college
can be expensive no matter your age, but financial aid can help relieve some of this burden.

Scholarships can help students of all ages and backgrounds afford college.
Some scholarships
are catered to support students of certain backgrounds or identities.

Many scholarships and other student resources are aimed at students who are fresh out of high school. However, these may not meet the needs of nontraditional students.

Nontraditional students
often choose to go back to school to earn additional credentials or skills to change careers or progress in their current roles. They also may have family or work responsibilities, which means they have different financial considerations and needs.

Read on to learn more about scholarships available to adults and nontraditional students.

Popular Online Programs for Adults and Nontraditional Students

Browse schools, compare programs side-by-side, and take the next step toward the right fit for you.

You have goals, Southern New Hampshire University can help you reach them. Whether you need a bachelor's degree to get into a career or want a master's degree to move up in your current career, SNHU has an online program for you. Explore popular programs or choose from 200+ affordable and accredited online Associate, Bachelor's and Master's degrees.

Building on Purdue's mission to provide greater access to affordable, world-class education, Purdue University Global delivers a fully personalized online experience that's tailored to working adults.

Arizona State University offers more than 300 top-ranked undergraduate and graduate programs online, designed and taught by the university's globally acclaimed faculty. Repeatedly ranked #1 in innovation in the U.S., ASU Is consistently making innovative improvements in terms of curriculum, faculty, students and technology. That's a degree better.

8 SCHOLARSHIPS FOR ADULTS AND NONTRADITIONAL LEARNERS

We’ve compiled a list of scholarships for adult and nontraditional students as a starting point — look into additional opportunities based on your background, achievements, and professional goals.

1.
ADULT STUDENTS IN SCHOLASTIC TRANSITION (ASIST) SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM

• Amount: $2,000-$10,000
• Deadline: Varies
• Who is eligible? The ASIST award is available to adult students in a variety of transitional situations pursuing an associate, bachelor’s, master’s degree, or a certification program. Candidates apply through one of the organization’s local chapters, and applicants must reside within the boundaries of a participating chapter. Requirements vary by chapter, but applicants generally need to demonstrate financial need and have clearly defined career goals.

2.
ALPHA SIGMA LAMBDA SCHOLARSHIP

• Amount: $1,500-$3,000
• Deadline: April 24
• Who is eligible? Adult students attending a school with an active Alpha Sigma Lambda chapter can apply. Undergraduate applicants must have completed 12 to 24 credits of coursework with a minimum 3.5 GPA, while master’s applicants must have a minimum 3.8 GPA.

3.
AMERICAN LEGION AUXILIARY NONTRADITIONAL STUDENT SCHOLARSHIP

• Amount: $2,000
• Deadline: March 1
• Who is eligible? This scholarship is open to nontraditional students who are members of the American Legion, Auxiliary, or Sons of the American Legion; honorably discharged veterans; or spouses of active-duty servicemembers or veterans.

4.
ROYAL NEIGHBORS OF AMERICA SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM

• Amount: $500
• Deadline: March 6
• Who is eligible? This scholarship supports beneficial members of Royal Neighbors who are enrolled in trade or vocational, associate’s, bachelor’s, master’s, or doctoral degree programs. Applicants need a minimum 2.5 high school GPA but those who graduated more than 10 years ago can instead provide a strong work history and professional reference.li> 5. Adult Skills Education Program Grant Amount: $1,000 Deadline: March 6 Who is eligible? Students over 19 who have a high school diploma or equivalent and are attending one of the 550 partner schools. It is a one-time scholarship, and students must demonstrate financial need. 6. Osher Reentry Scholarship Program Amount: Varies Deadline: Varies Who is eligible? Eligible applicants must have a cumulative gap in their education of at least five years, be pursuing their first undergraduate degree, and demonstrate financial need and academic promise. Students must attend one of the partner colleges as the foundation distributes funds to schools and not applicants directly. The scholarship is meant to benefit students typically between the ages of 25 and 50. 7. Empower Her Scholarship Amount: March 6 Deadline: Mid-May Who is eligible? Any pregnant or parenting female undergraduate student enrolled in at least 6 credit hours at a college or university in Nebraska. Applying students must have at least a 2.5 GPA and be enrolled in a minimum of six credit hours. 8. Folded Flag Foundation Amount: $5,000-$7,500 a year Deadline: May 1 for fall and spring semesters, mid-April for summer scholarships Who is eligible? The Folded Flag Foundation provides educational scholarships and support grants to the spouses and children under the age of 26 of U.S. military and government personnel who died as a result of hostile action or in an accident related to U.S. combat or stateside military operations. To apply, you will need to provide proof of eligibility, need, and enrollment. Frequently Asked Questions About Adult and Nontraditional Student Scholarships Collapsed Expand All Who are adult learners and nontraditional students? Adult students are usually considered people over 24 years old who are attending college for the first time or returning to school after a long hiatus. While there is no singular definition of “nontraditional students,” these learners are often individuals who did not enroll in a campus-based college program immediately after graduating from high school. This can include adult students, online students, and students with children. How do adult students pay for college? Adult students typically pay for college in the same ways younger students do. Scholarships, loans, grants, and work-study programs are all available to adult students. Depending on their financial situation, adult students may have had the time and resources to pay for college out of pocket by using savings or other personal assets. Is it too late to go back to school? It’s never too late to return to school . Anyone can find some benefit to going back to school, whether it’s pursuing better career opportunities, a higher earning potential, or increased expertise. With the flexibility of night and weekend classes and asynchronous online education, older students can earn their degrees while meeting professional and family obligations. Can adult students get college scholarships? Adult students can have the same access to college scholarships as younger students. This can include federal financial aid, state scholarships, university scholarships, and grants from local businesses or organizations. Adult students can fill out the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) , which is a good starting point for state and federal scholarships and grants. Is there an age limit on scholarships? Some scholarships may have age limits, but many do not. You can check with the scholarship provider to learn if a scholarship has an age limit for applicants. Some scholarships have preferences or restrictions on race, gender, state of residence, and program of study. Explore More College Resources Financial Aid for Undocumented Students Finding financial resources can be challenging for undocumented students, but it’s not impossible. Discover the resources available for you to apply to college. by Doug Wintemute Updated June 23, 2025 7 Useful Budgeting Tips for First-Year College Students Want to keep a college budget? We’ve sourced the seven most important budgeting tips for first-year students from experts. by Danika Miller Updated February 11, 2022 The Student’s Guide to Saving for College It’s no secret that college is expensive. Our guide can help you save money for college and prepare for those expenses. by Elin Johnson Updated May 15, 2025

5.
ADULT SKILLS EDUCATION PROGRAM GRANT

• Amount: $1,000
• Deadline: March 6
• Who is eligible? Students over 19 who have a high school diploma or equivalent and are attending one of the 550 partner schools. It is a one-time scholarship, and students must demonstrate financial need.

6.
OSHER REENTRY SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM

• Amount: Varies
• Deadline: Varies
• Who is eligible? Eligible applicants must have a cumulative gap in their education of at least five years, be pursuing their first undergraduate degree, and demonstrate financial need and academic promise. Students must attend one of the partner colleges as the foundation distributes funds to schools and not applicants directly. The scholarship is meant to benefit students typically between the ages of 25 and 50.

7.
EMPOWER HER SCHOLARSHIP

• Amount: March 6
• Deadline: Mid-May
• Who is eligible? Any pregnant or parenting female undergraduate student enrolled in at least 6 credit hours at a college or university in Nebraska. Applying students must have at least a 2.5 GPA and be enrolled in a minimum of six credit hours.

8.
FOLDED FLAG FOUNDATION

• Amount: $5,000-$7,500 a year
• Deadline: May 1 for fall and spring semesters, mid-April for summer scholarships
• Who is eligible? The Folded Flag Foundation provides educational scholarships and support grants to the spouses and children under the age of 26 of U.S. military and government personnel who died as a result of hostile action or in an accident related to U.S. combat or stateside military operations. To apply, you will need to provide proof of eligibility, need, and enrollment.

FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS ABOUT ADULT AND NONTRADITIONAL STUDENT SCHOLARSHIPS

WHO ARE ADULT LEARNERS AND NONTRADITIONAL STUDENTS?

Adult students are usually considered people over 24 years old who are attending college for the first time or returning to school after a long hiatus.

While there is no singular definition of “nontraditional students,” these learners are often individuals who did not enroll in a campus-based college program immediately after graduating from high school. This can include adult students, online students, and students with children.

HOW DO ADULT STUDENTS PAY FOR COLLEGE?

Adult students typically pay for college in the same ways younger students do. Scholarships, loans, grants, and work-study programs are all available to adult students.

Depending on their financial situation, adult students may have had the time and resources to pay for college out of pocket by using savings or other personal assets.

IS IT TOO LATE TO GO BACK TO SCHOOL?

It’s never too late to
return to school
. Anyone can find some benefit to going back to school, whether it’s pursuing better career opportunities, a higher earning potential, or increased expertise.

With the flexibility of night and weekend classes and asynchronous online education, older students can earn their degrees while meeting professional and family obligations.

CAN ADULT STUDENTS GET COLLEGE SCHOLARSHIPS?

Adult students can have the same access to college scholarships as younger students. This can include federal financial aid, state scholarships, university scholarships, and grants from local businesses or organizations.

Adult students can fill out the
Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA)
, which is a good starting point for state and federal scholarships and grants.

IS THERE AN AGE LIMIT ON SCHOLARSHIPS?

Some scholarships may have age limits, but many do not. You can check with the scholarship provider to learn if a scholarship has an age limit for applicants. Some scholarships have preferences or restrictions on race, gender, state of residence, and program of study.

EXPLORE MORE COLLEGE RESOURCES

FINANCIAL AID FOR UNDOCUMENTED STUDENTS

Finding financial resources can be challenging for undocumented students, but it’s not impossible. Discover the resources available for you to apply to college.

by
Doug Wintemute

Updated
June 23, 2025

7 USEFUL BUDGETING TIPS FOR FIRST-YEAR COLLEGE STUDENTS

Want to keep a college budget? We’ve sourced the seven most important budgeting tips for first-year students from experts.

by
Danika Miller

Updated
February 11, 2022

THE STUDENT’S GUIDE TO SAVING FOR COLLEGE

It’s no secret that college is expensive. Our guide can help you save money for college and prepare for those expenses.

by
Elin Johnson

Updated
May 15, 2025