• Home
• Resource Articles
• Financial Aid
• 8 Things You Should Know About Federal Work-Study

SHARE

8 THINGS YOU SHOULD KNOW ABOUT FEDERAL WORK-STUDY

• SHARE

SHARE

The
Federal Work-Study Program
gives you an opportunity to gain valuable work experience while attending college, career school, or trade school. And unlike a federal student loan, you don’t have to pay this money back.

Here are eight things you should know about Federal Work-Study:

• You must submit the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA ® ) form.
• Jobs are limited, so it’s important to act quickly.
• Work-study funding and jobs aren’t guaranteed each year.
• Work-study funds are usually for your day-to-day expenses.
• You’ll get your work-study funds through a regular paycheck.
• Work-study jobs are part time.
• Work-study earnings won’t reduce your future student aid.
• You must keep your grades up to stay eligible.

1

YOU MUST SUBMIT THE
FREE APPLICATION FOR FEDERAL STUDENT AID
(FAFSA
®
) FORM.

This is where it all begins! The
FAFSA
®
form
is the only way to be considered for Federal Work-Study. Once you’ve filled out your FAFSA form and been accepted to your college, career school, or trade school, you’ll receive a financial aid offer. This offer outlines all your financial aid options, including Federal Work-Study if your school has determined you’re eligible.

Students who file their FAFSA
®
form early usually have a higher chance of being awarded Federal Work-Study funds.

2

JOBS ARE LIMITED, SO IT’S IMPORTANT TO ACT QUICKLY.

Once you’ve been awarded and accepted Federal Work-Study funds, the next step is finding a job.

Some schools may match students to jobs, but most require you to find, apply, and interview for positions on your own. Check with your school’s financial aid office and student employment center for more information—they can be great resources for navigating the work-study process.

Not all work-study jobs are strictly on campus. Many nonprofits offer the opportunity to earn work-study wages while doing community-based work off campus, such as serving as a reading tutor to kids at a local elementary school.

Start your search early so you have time to research the different jobs available. Each work-study job has a different pay rate and gives you a different kind of work experience. Make sure to think ahead about what type of job will meet your needs and goals.

3

WORK-STUDY FUNDING AND JOBS AREN’T GUARANTEED EACH YEAR.

Several factors can affect whether you are offered a work-study award each year. Those factors can include

• your family income or financial need,
• whether you received work-study funds in the previous year, and
• how much work-study funding your school has available that year.
If you’re interested in Federal Work-Study, contact your school for information on their award criteria.

4

WORK-STUDY FUNDS ARE USUALLY FOR YOUR DAY-TO-DAY EXPENSES.

Typically, work-study pay is for your day-to-day needs such as food, transportation, and school supplies.

Some schools allow you to apply your work-study funds directly to your account for billed expenses such as tuition, fees, and food and housing. If you want to use your work-study funds this way, contact your school’s financial aid office to see if this is possible.

5

YOU’LL GET YOUR WORK-STUDY FUNDS THROUGH A REGULAR PAYCHECK.

You’ll get paid at least once a month, although some schools may pay you weekly or biweekly. Most schools offer direct deposit, but some may still use paper paychecks. Check with your school’s financial aid office about how you would be paid.

Undergraduate students are paid by the hour. Graduate and professional students can be paid by the hour or by salary, depending on the position.

Work-study jobs can have differing pay rates, depending on the type of work and what skills you need for the job.

6

WORK-STUDY JOBS ARE PART TIME.

Federal Work-Study jobs are intended to be part-time work. Plus, your school will have a set number of hours that you can work in a given job.

The number of hours that you are allowed to work is based on your financial need. When assigning work hours, your employer and your school’s financial aid office will consider how the combination of your work and study hours could affect your academic progress.

Your weekly work schedule will depend on the type of job you get and your employer’s expectations. Your employer and your school’s financial aid office will build a schedule around your classes.

You should not exceed the total hours in your Federal Work-Study job. Check in with your supervisor and your school’s financial aid office if you have questions about your limit and how to track your total hours worked.

In some rare situations, you may be able to be paid as a regular employee after your work-study funding runs out. Check with your supervisor to see if there is any flexibility to continue working in the role after your funding runs out.

7

WORK-STUDY EARNINGS WON’T REDUCE YOUR FUTURE STUDENT AID.

When your fill out your FAFSA form each year, you (and your family, if applicable) will provide consent and approval to have your federal tax information transferred directly from the IRS into your FAFSA form. Then your income (and/or your family’s income) will be used to help determine how much federal student aid you’ll be offered.

However, your earnings from a Federal Work-Study job won’t be included as part of your total income when your school calculates your aid offer. This means the money you make from a work-study job won’t impact your student aid offer the next year.

If you need help filling out your FAFSA form, reach out to your school’s financial aid office.

8

YOU MUST KEEP YOUR GRADES UP TO STAY ELIGIBLE.

Falling behind in your studies can affect your Federal Work-Study eligibility. Specifically, you’ll lose your eligibility if you fall below your school’s requirements for
satisfactory academic progress
.

Sometimes it can be hard to balance a job and school at the same time. But keep in mind that your employer plans your work hours around your school schedule. If your schedule needs to change, that’s ok. Don’t be afraid to speak to your employer and your school’s financial aid office about changing your schedule or how many hours you work each week.

Remember, the Federal Work-Study Program is intended to help you succeed.