ON THIS PAGE

BELONGING AT UC SANTA CRUZ

We are a supportive community where social and environmental justice are taught and lived. No matter your background, we are committed to cultivating and promoting an environment that values and supports every person in an atmosphere of inclusivity, honesty, cooperation, mutual respect, and fairness.

POPUP LEAD CAPTURE

ADMITTED STUDENT EVENTS

We are excited to share the Banana Slug experience with you, from our gorgeous campus to our award-winning academic programs and wide range of cocurricular opportunities! Participate in our on-campus, local, or virtual programs to help you and your family make an informed decision on your college journey. Our signature on-campus events will be
Banana Slug Day
on April 11 and
Transfer Day
on May 9, but we’ll also be on the road this spring, visiting many cities in the U.S. and throughout the world, greeting admitted students and families. These events are open to all. For help setting up your CruzID to gain access to these events for admitted students, click
HERE
.

PREPARE FOR
YOUR FUTURE

UC Santa Cruz graduates are sought after and hired for their knowledge, skills, and passion. Whether you plan to start working right away, or pursue graduate school or professional school -- such as law school or medical school -- your UC Santa Cruz degree will help you on your way.

BANANA SLUG
LIFE

Banana Slugs
know how to have fun! UC Santa Cruz offers many opportunities for student engagement, including the 10 residential colleges, over 150 student organizations
, a variety of on-campus events, and lots more!

COME
VISIT US
!

Celebrated for its extraordinary beauty, our oceanside campus is a center of learning, research, and the free exchange of ideas. We are near Monterey Bay, Silicon Valley, and the San Francisco Bay Area -- an ideal location for internships and future employment.

HEALTH & SAFETY

At UC Santa Cruz, we have resources to support your physical, mental, and emotional health, as well as safety services such as fire safety and crime prevention. UC Santa Cruz publishes an Annual Security & Fire Safety Report, based on the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Safety and Campus Crime Statistics Act (commonly referred to as the Clery Act). The report contains detailed information on the campus’s crime and fire prevention programs, as well as campus crime and fire statistics for the past three years. A paper version of the report is available upon request.

WHY I SAID
YES TO UCSC

Thinking about applying to UC Santa Cruz for next year or beyond? Find out why you should consider becoming a new Banana Slug!

OUR ACHIEVEMENTS AND RANKINGS

We are ranked as the #1 university in the nation for racial and gender diversity in leadership (Women’s Power Gap Initiative, 2022).

We ranked as the #2 public university in the nation for students focused on making an impact in the world (Princeton Review, 2023).

We are ranked among the top U.S. universities for making an impact (U.S. News and World Report, 2024).

TAKE THE NEXT STEP