APPLY AS AN UNDERGRADUATE

• Home
• >
• Apply as an Undergraduate

APPLY TO APU—FALL 2026 APPLICATIONS ARE NOW OPEN

APU welcomes students who are committed to personal, intellectual, and spiritual growth.
Applicants must evidence appreciation for the standards and spirit of the university
and exhibit moral character in harmony with its purpose. The university invites applications
from students who will contribute to, as well as benefit from, the university experience.
In assessing the applicant’s potential for success, academic capabilities, as well
as involvement in church, school, and community activities, are reviewed.

The admission and application requirements for
freshman
,
transfer
, and
international students
vary.

New Application
Returning User

ABOUT AZUSA PACIFIC

At APU, you’ll thrive while discovering your God-given purpose. APU has stayed committed
to
God First
and excellence in higher education since its founding in 1899.
Our faith
and
Four Cornerstones
—Christ, Scholarship, Community, and Service—permeate every aspect of the university.
Located about 20 miles northeast of Los Angeles, APU continues to be recognized each
year as one of America’s Best Colleges by
U.S. News & World Report
.

A CHRIST-CENTERED EDUCATION

You’ll thrive academically while learning from caring and accomplished professors
with industry connections. An APU degree is an investment that pays off, and Given
how close APU is to L.A., you’ll engage in innovative, rigorous programs preparing
you with real-world experience to lead in your field.

Find Your Program

A THRIVING COMMUNITY

We’re known for our authentic, inspiring community, and students feel at home here.
As we do life together, we strengthen faith, embolden leadership, and support each
other. You’ll foster meaningful connections together and serve others at APU and beyond.
Learn more about our
faith and learning community
.

Meet Our Community

A TRANSFORMATIVE EXPERIENCE

You’ll develop mentor relationships with faculty and staff who want to see you succeed,
and you’ll graduate transformed to make a significant difference in your field. Whether
attending chapel or studying with friends, you’ll see God at work in the small moments.
Transformation happens in day-to-day campus life.

Learn More About APU

MINIMUM ADMISSION STANDARDS

To ensure each incoming student is prepared to succeed at APU, it is recommended that
all applicants to the university meet the following minimums. Meeting the minimums
set forth does not guarantee admission, but does guarantee that an applicant will
be given full consideration.

FRESHMAN MINIMUM STANDARDS

TRANSFER MINIMUM STANDARDS

Azusa Pacific University, in accordance with applicable federal and state laws and
university policies, does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin,
sex, age, disability, medical status, or status as a veteran. The university also
prohibits sexual harassment. This nondiscrimination policy covers admission, access,
operation of university programs and activities, and employment. This policy is in
accordance with the following laws, as amended, and their implementing regulations,
to the extent and in the circumstances that they are applicable to the university:
Titles VI and VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964; Title IX of the Educational Amendments
of 1972; the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation
Act of 1973.

The associate vice president of
human resources
is the compliance officer, and inquiries concerning undergraduate student issues
related to discrimination should be made to the associate vice president at (626)
815-4527. Refer to the
Title IX
page on the APU website for our current Title IX officers.

CONTACT YOUR ADMISSIONS REPRESENTATIVE

HOURS

LOCATION

FOOTNOTES

• High school honors have weighted credit in determining the student’s overall GPA.