APPLY TO LMU

Ready to take the next step?
Submit your application below as an Undergraduate, Graduate, or Pre-College candidate. We welcome students interested in joining our diverse community of scholars and becoming a part of our enriching educational tradition.

Missed the January 15 deadline?
If you remain interested in applying to LMU for Undergraduate First-Year Admission and/or have any special circumstances to discuss, please email
radia.alouache@lmu.edu
.

HOW TO APPLY

FIRST-YEAR

Learn More

TRANSFER

Learn More

GRADUATE

Learn More

INTERNATIONAL

Learn more

PRE-COLLEGE SUMMER PROGRAMS

Learn more

LOYOLA LAW SCHOOL

Learn More

FINANCIAL AID

Learn More

UNDERGRADUATE DEADLINES

GRADUATE DEADLINES

LMU offers more than 50 master's, doctoral, and certificate programs. Learn more about our
application deadlines
.
For questions, please contact the Graduate Admission Office at
graduateadmission@lmu.edu
or 310.338.2721.

ADMISSION STANDARDS

Admission to LMU is competitive, and the applicant review process is guided by the same philosophy as our education: we consider the whole person. Along with strong academic performance, thoughtful essay responses, and positive recommendations, LMU also takes the time to learn more about you, your achievements, and community contribution. Our thorough evaluation results in a competitive selection of qualified students who are ready to become leaders, entrepreneurs, and unique individuals with and for others.

For Graduate admission and alternative academic options, follow up will vary based upon each program.

APPLICATION STATUS

Once you apply for undergraduate admission, you will receive instructions for logging into the LMU Application Portal where you can monitor the status of your admission application. You will also be notified when your application is complete. Please be aware that submitting documents through the Common Application is a two-step process. First, your school submits your forms to the Common Application. Then, we import them in to the LMU system for review.. During peak volume periods, the process can take up to a week.

The application status for Graduate programs and alternative academic options will vary based upon each program.

CONNECT WITH US

Visit us on-campus or online to get additional information or answers to questions you may still have. Speak to students about their LMU experience and learn more about our LMU Lion family.

Visit Us

LEARN MORE

• Undergraduate Admission admission@lmu.edu
• Transfer Admission transfer@lmu.edu
• International Admission international@lmu.edu
• Graduate Admission graduateadmission@lmu.edu
• Summer Programs summer@lmu.edu

ADDITIONAL RESOURCES

Financial Aid

Student Housing

Student Clubs & Organizations

Campus Life Gateway

Faculty Profiles

UNDERGRADUATE APPLICATION OPTIONS

If you remain interested in applying to LMU or have any special circumstances to discuss, please email
radia.alouache@lmu.edu
.