BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN GLOBAL BUSINESS

The Global Business degree can be thought of as a “business +” degree. Redlands students take courses in accounting, economics, marketing, and statistics — typical of most all business programs — then, they personalize their program by adding language study and study abroad experiences.

DEGREES OFFERED

Bachelor of Science

PROGRAM TYPES

Undergraduate, Major

MODE OF STUDY

On Campus

DEPARTMENT

SCHOOL / COLLEGE

WHAT IS THE BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN GLOBAL BUSINESS DEGREE?

A degree in
global business
prepares students for successful careers in international business, public and nonprofit service, and graduate study in a variety of disciplines including law, finance, business, and government. Students learn how differences in culture, political systems, economic systems, languages, levels of development, historical experiences, and the natural environment, among other factors, can affect business around the world, and learn how an organization can navigate and succeed amidst these diverse factors.

WHY EARN A BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN GLOBAL BUSINESS DEGREE AT REDLANDS?

As a global business student at Redlands, you'll study abroad for at least one semester; complete at least three years (six semesters) of university-level study of a foreign language (or demonstrate equivalent competence), including, but not limited to Spanish, Chinese (Mandarin), Japanese, and French; and take courses focused on places outside of the United States to develop a geographic area of emphasis or concentration through interdisciplinary study.

REQUIREMENTS

The GPA requirements for entry into the global business program are higher than University norms.Students seeking to declare a major in global business must have a cumulative GPA of at least 3.0 at the time they submit their declaration of major and must have a 3.0 grade or higher in each of the prerequisites to the major courses. Students who do not meet the cumulative GPA and/or the grade requirement for each of prerequisites to the major courses as noted above may petition the Department of Global Business Department.

CLASSES YOU'LL TAKE

*The following courses are subject to change. Please check the latest
university catalog
for all coursework information, program requirements, and learning outcomes.

BACHELOR OF SCIENCE REQUIREMENTS

PREREQUISITE COURSES

We advise students to complete all of their prerequisite courses no later than the spring of their sophomore year before they declare their major. All prerequisite courses must be taken for a numerical grade and students must earn a minimum grade of 3.0 in each course.

The following courses are prerequisites to the required major courses. Substitutions to these requirements can be made only with the written approval of the Department Chair. Some also satisfy Liberal Arts Inquiry (LAI) requirements.

• GLB 100 Introduction to Business (4) -or- GLB 228 Globalization (4)
• ECON 101 Principles of Economics (4)
• ACCT 210 Principles of Financial Accounting (4)
• POLI 202 Statistical Analysis and Mapping of Social Science Data (4) -or- MATH 111 Elementary Statistics with Applications (4) -or- PSYCH 250 Statistical Methods (4)

FOUNDATION COURSES

• ACCT 220 Principles of Managerial Accounting (4)
• BUS 136 Principles of Global Marketing (4)
• GLB 240 or BUS 240 U.S. Business Law (4)
• 2 (two) approved advanced analytical courses

REQUIRED MAJOR COURSES

• GLB 336 International Business (4)
• GLB 353 Financial Management (4)
• GLB 356 International Finance (4)
• GLB 457 Strategic Issues in Global Business (4)
• GLB 459 Global Business Capstone (4)

ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS

• Study Abroad: Minimum of one semester abroad, with additional study abroad recommended and supported by the department. Students are expected to study abroad in a location relevant to the language(s) they have studied. We want you to develop a depth of expertise in a specific region, not just go abroad for a superficial experience.
• Language proficiency: Testing placement at the entry point to the 300 level of a foreign language by graduation. This means the student will have completed the 202-level course with at least a grade of 3.0 in the final semester, or the equivalent. For languages not taught at the University of Redlands, students must provide appropriate documentation to the Department Chair.
• Foreign-language study: All students must take at least 8 credits of a foreign language. Students who are already proficient may take the required 8 credits either at an advanced level in the language(s) in which they are proficient (for example taking a literature class in that language or a class on translation) or another language.

OPTIONAL: FOR HONORS ELIGIBILITY

Students who have met the following criteria are eligible for Departmental Honors:

• A cumulative GPA of 3.7 or higher in the major, including prerequisites and electives counted towards the major;
• Completion of a 400-level course in a language other than English, or equivalent;
• Completion of an approved Internship during the study abroad program; and
• Completion of the Global Business Capstone (GLB 459) with at least a 3.7.
Early Action 1: November 1
Early Action 2: December 1
Regular Decision: January 15*

FIND US ON CAMPUS

Duke Hall 208

WHAT YOU'LL LEARN

WHAT YOU'LL LEARN

THE CORE FOUR FRAMEWORK

At Redlands, our students’ success is at the heart of everything we do. We offer experiential learning opportunities, but our Core Four initiative takes that commitment to a deeper, intentional level. More than a set of experiences, the Core Four is a framework for transformation. Learn more about how students can prepare for their academic journey.

of University of Redlands B.S. in Business graduates have successful outcomes within six months of graduation.

First Year Destination Survey, 2023

Alumni shared they gained critical thinking skills from their degree.

NACM Alumni Career Mobility, 2022

Best Universities in the West

U.S. News & World Report, 2023

FEATURED FACULTY

Every Redlands faculty member is an active practitioner in their field. The classes they teach emerge from their unique research and practices, and they’re passionate about what they’re sharing.

HEUNGJOO CHA

FAISAL HARAHAP

WANT TO KNOW MORE?

Get in touch with our admissions team.