WELCOME TO FINANCIAL AID & SCHOLARSHIPS!

The Financial Aid & Scholarships office at California State University Channel Islands
(CSUCI) is comprised of dedicated financial aid professionals committed to serving
students by providing information to secure the necessary
financial resources to meet educational goals. The types and amounts of financial
aid CSUCI offers or recommends are subject to availability of funds, enrollment status
and financial need. CSUCI students have a variety of financial aid programs available
for assistance. Programs vary in eligibility criteria, aid amounts and repayment options.

Channel Islands Federal School Code: 039803

Fall 2022 Student Emergency Grants FAQs (HEERF III-ARP Funds)

CARES Act: Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund Reporting

SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT

• The CI Scholarships deadline has been extended to March 15, 2026.
• The FAFSA and CADAA priority deadline was March 2, 2026 . Federal Student Aid Changes Starting 2026–27 Congress has passed new legislation that will bring changes to federal student aid
 beginning July 1, 2026 . We are currently reviewing all of the changes and will provide updates as soon as
 more information is available.
The
FAFSA
and
CADAA
priority deadline was
March 2, 2026
.

Federal Student Aid Changes Starting 2026–27
Congress has passed new legislation that will bring changes to federal student aid
beginning
July 1, 2026
. We are currently reviewing all of the changes and will provide updates as soon as
more information is available.

The CSU system is closely reviewing these changes. We will share updates and guidance
as more information becomes available.

Stay informed:
CSU Federal Updates

IMPORTANT REMINDERS

• Office, Phone and Counseling Hours : Located on the First Floor of Marin Hall Office Hours : 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Office Closed for Holidays: March 31, May 25, June 19, and July 3.

• Can I make an appointment : At this time we ask that you please call or email our office to schedule an appointment.
 Online scheduling of appointments will resume shortly.
• When you complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) or California
 Dream Act Application (CADAA) you may be selected for verification or required to
 submit additional documentation to resolve conflicting information.
• If you are a FAFSA or CADAA filer and are required to submit additional documentation,
 you can securely upload the documentation through the "Financial Aid Student Forms"
 portal available through your myCI .
Please visit our
Important Deadlines
tab for additional information regarding important financial aid deadlines.