WELCOME

The Department of Music at Sonoma State University is a place where students can thrive in a dynamic and creative atmosphere. We emphasize high-quality performance experiences and applied practical training. Each student's educational goals are guided by our knowledgeable and supportive faculty.

Sonoma State University offers Bachelor of Music degrees in Performance, Music Teacher Preparation, Jazz Studies and Composition; and a Bachelor of Arts degree in Liberal Arts, Music. SSU’s music degree programs prepare students for career advancement performance, public school education, studio instruction, composition, graduate study, and other professional avenues.

Sonoma State University’s many performing ensembles are open to all students on campus, regardless of major. We offer a multitude of instrumental, choral, jazz and chamber ensembles. Instrumental ensembles include Symphony Orchestra, Symphonic Wind Ensemble, Concert Band, Jazz Orchestra, Latin Band, Jazz Combos, Guitar Ensemble, Percussion Ensemble, a variety of Chamber Music Ensembles, and Rock Collegium. Vocal ensembles include Symphonic Chorus, Concert Choir, SonoVoce, and Opera/Musical Theater Scenes.

Our ensembles perform in the
Green Music Center's
magnificent venues,
Joan and Sanford I. Weill Hall
and
Schroeder Recital Hall
, and students regularly engage with the steady stream of professional guest artists who perform on campus.

Admission to the Department of Music's programs is by Audition Only. Information about auditions may be found on the
Prospective Student Auditions
page.

NEWS

ENSEMBLE PLACEMENT AUDITIONS

APPLICATIONS OPEN UNTIL APRIL 30, 2026

Sign up now

• Events
• News

EVENTS

Schroeder Hall, Green Music Center

NEWS

View All Performances

View All Music News

I could not imagine a better place to flourish musically and academically. Through personable faculty, the department fosters an environment where students can become well rounded musicians that are prepared for any career path. We are always being challenged, while also supported.

I love being a choral education major at Sonoma State. It is a very welcoming and inclusive place where instructors really care about student success. Smaller class-sizes means I get personalized attention and regular podium time for conducting classes to practice with a live ensemble.

Sonoma State University is an environment where you can thrive, with high quality courses and fantastic instructors. The Department of Music gave me the tools to be successful with my college education and teaching career.

SSU's Jazz Department is truly like no other. The welcoming nature and enthusiasm of the world-class staff make learning easy and exciting. On top of technical mastery, faculty have also taught me to manage the lifestyle of a musician, and have given me numerous opportunities to perform and network outside of school.

The composition program at Sonoma State University has given me the confidence and ability to write for any instrument or ensemble I can imagine. Through their unique skills and approaches the faculty have provided me with the tools to bring my music to life.