ON THIS PAGE

POPUP LEAD CAPTURE

HOW TO APPLY

To apply to UC Santa Cruz, fill out and submit the
online application
. The application is common to all University of California campuses, and you’ll be asked to choose which campuses you want to apply for. The application also serves as an application for scholarships. The application fee is $80 for U.S. students. If you apply to more than one University of California campus at the same time, you’ll need to submit $80 for each UC campus you apply to. Fee waivers are available for students with qualifying family incomes. The fee for international applicants is $95 per campus.

BEGIN YOUR JOURNEY

FIRST-YEAR ADMISSION

Apply to UC Santa Cruz as a first-year student if you’re currently in high school, or if you’ve graduated high school, but haven’t enrolled in a regular session (fall, winter, spring) at a college or university.

TRANSFER ADMISSION

Apply to UC Santa Cruz if you’re enrolled in a regular session (fall, winter or spring) at a college or university after high school graduation. The exception is if you’re only taking a couple of classes during the summer after graduation.

OUT-OF-STATE STUDENTS

Come study with us in beautiful
California
! More information for you here.

INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS

UC Santa Cruz welcomes students from outside the U.S.! Start your journey to a U.S. degree here.

PARENTS & GUARDIANS

You are a vital part of your student’s education. Learn more about what to expect and how you can support your student.

COUNSELORS

Thank you for all you do for your students! More information and answers to frequently asked questions here.

COSTS & FINANCIAL AID

We understand that finances are an important part of the university decision for you and your family. Fortunately, UC Santa Cruz has excellent financial aid for California residents, as well as scholarships for non-residents. You are not expected to do this on your own! As many as 77% of UCSC students receive some form of financial help from the Financial Aid Office.

HOUSING

Learn and live with us! UC Santa Cruz has a wide array of housing options, including dorm rooms and apartments, some with ocean or redwood views. If you would prefer to find your own housing in the Santa Cruz community, our
Community Rentals Office
can help you.

LIVING AND LEARNING COMMUNITIES

Whether you’re living on campus or not, as a UC Santa Cruz student, you will be affiliated with one of our 10 residential colleges. Your college is your home base on campus, where you will find community, engagement, and academic and personal support. Our students love their colleges!

HERE ARE YOUR NEXT STEPS!