CHEMISTRY MAJORS

Request Information

• Home
• >
• Programs
• >
• Chemistry Majors

STUDY CHEMISTRY AT AZUSA PACIFIC UNIVERSITY

You’ll graduate prepared for graduate or professional studies and success in a range
of chemistry-related careers. You’ll have the opportunity to conduct cutting-edge
research alongside faculty and gain experience with state-of-the-art equipment in
the Segerstrom Science Center. Choose from a BS or BA in chemistry depending on your
unique professional goals, and gain foundational knowledge in topics from organic
chemistry to analytical chemistry, physical chemistry, inorganic chemistry, and biochemistry.

See Admission Requirements

See Admission Requirements

4+1 ACCELERATED PATHWAY TO SINGLE SUBJECT TEACHING CREDENTIAL

• Enter a Bachelor of Arts in Chemistry program with the opportunity to complete APU’s
 Master of Arts in Education degree plus Single Subject Teaching Credential in just
 one year after completing the BA degree!
• Undergraduate students within the majors of English, Social Science, Art, Math, Biology,
 Chemistry, or Physics who have completed at least 60 units may apply to the 4+1 Pathway.
• Tailored for those who wish to teach Chemistry at the middle or high school levels,
 this program allows you to be admitted to the MA in Education + Credential program
 as early as your junior year.
• By completing 9 units of graduate-level coursework in your senior year, this pathway
 allows you to complete the master’s degree and early your credential in just 12 months
 after graduation!
• Speak with your advisor before you reach 60 units, and 9 units of electives in your
 plan.
View 4+1 Guidebook

PROGRAM AT A GLANCE

UPCOMING EVENTS

APU One Day

• Saturday, June 13, 2026
• Saturday, July 11, 2026

APPLICATION DEADLINE

We are rolling admission.

Apply Now

PROGRAM INFORMATION

• Program Units: 54-74

LOCATION

• Azusa (Main Campus)
Yellow Ribbon and Military Friendly School

GAIN HANDS-ON EXPERIENCE

• Hands-on, practical training in laboratory and research techniques.
• Direct access to and training on start-of-the-art instrumentation.
• Conduct research with faculty or secure an internship in the field.
• Deepen an understanding of scientific principles and problem-solving, from general
 chemistry to advanced chemistry topics (organic, analytical, physical, biochemical,
 and inorganic).
• Integrate faith with your life and scientific discipline.

BY THE NUMBERS

GET STARTED

TIFFANY NAKLA: CONNECTING MY FAITH AND SCIENCE

As Tiffany Nakla ’22 studied biochemistry and participated in research opportunities,
her understanding of God deepened as she learned more about the intricacies of creation.

Read More About Tiffany

PROGRAM DETAILS

The Bachelor of Science in Chemistry program provides a rigorous curriculum and strong
foundation in the five major subfields of chemistry—analytical, organic, inorganic,
physical, and biochemistry—as well as in related fields such as biology, physics,
and mathematics, providing breadth to the study of chemistry. This program provides
excellent preparation for entry-level positions as a researcher or laboratory technician,
in governmental or industrial technical support, in management, or in teaching at
the secondary level. It is also excellent preparation for graduate studies in fields
such as but not limited to chemistry, biochemistry, environmental studies, forensic
science, pharmacology, and biotechnology. Students who attend graduate school and
obtain a master’s or doctoral degree may find employment at a university or in the
private or government sectors.

The Bachelor of Arts in Chemistry provides a strong foundation in general chemistry,
organic chemistry, analytical chemistry, and physical chemistry. Additional course
requirements provide a foundation in related fields (biology, physics, and mathematics)
and opportunity to study other areas within chemistry in greater depth. This major
is intended to be paired with a minor such as business management, computer information
systems, computer science, mathematics, physics, political science, or other minor
of interest. The BA in Chemistry program provides excellent preparation for entry-level
positions as a researcher or laboratory technician, in governmental or industrial
technical support, in management, or in teaching at the secondary level.

Browse the tabs below—if you have questions, visit the
Student Services Center
page, and we’ll make sure you get the info you need.

GENERAL UNDERGRADUATE ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS

Select an option below:

• First-time Freshman
• Transfer
• International

REQUIREMENTS FOR ALLIED HEALTH, BIOCHEMISTRY, BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES, AND CHEMISTRY MAJORS

While the Department of Biology and Chemistry does not cap enrollment in these majors,
students are expected to demonstrate certain levels of achievement (detailed below)
to enter and remain in these majors.

FRESHMAN APPLICANTS

To qualify for a major in allied health, biological sciences, biochemistry, or chemistry,
freshman applicants must submit documentation of the following (or their equivalents)
and indicate their choice for one of those majors to the
Office of Undergraduate Admissions
before the start of classes. After that date, the requirements in the Matriculated
APU Students section (below) must be met.

• High school GPA of 3.0+
• At least three years of high school math (an average of C- or better across all three years) or SAT Math score of 530+ or ACT Math score of
 21+
• At least 2 years of high school science (with a B or better in either biology or chemistry)

TRANSFER APPLICANTS

To qualify for a major in allied health, biological sciences, biochemistry, or chemistry,
transfer applicants must submit documentation of the following (or their equivalents)
and indicate their choice for one of these majors to the
Office of Undergraduate Admissions
before the start of classes. After that date, the requirements in the Matriculated
APU Students section (below) must be met.

• Community college/university GPA of 2.8+
• Completion of Intermediate Algebra or higher ( C- or better)
• Completion of a one-semester science course ( C- or better, biology or chemistry course recommended)

MATRICULATED APU STUDENTS

To qualify for a major in allied health, biological sciences, biochemistry, or chemistry,
matriculated APU students must submit evidence of all of the following:

• Completion of BIOL 151 or CHEM 151 (C- or higher)
• Completion of MATH MATH 95 , current ALEKS score of 45+, SAT Math score of 530+, or ACT Math score of 21+
• Completion of prospective major advising in the Department of Biology and Chemistry

DEPARTMENT POLICIES

The following are policies that apply to all students in courses offered by the department:

• A student must complete all prerequisites for a BIOC, BIOL, or CHEM course with a C- or better before taking the course (except as noted in the course description).
• Students with a total of three unsuccessful attempts (below C- ) in any combination of BIOC, BIOL, and CHEM courses will be automatically dropped
 from subsequent enrollment in department courses.
• Any single BIOC, BIOL, or CHEM course may only be taken two times at APU.
• Students may not earn a chemistry minor if they are majoring in biochemistry, nor
 may they earn a biology minor if they are majoring in allied health or biochemistry.
• Students missing more than three labs in a course receive an automatic F in the course.
• Courses with labs in an online or correspondence format are not allowed to transfer
 as BIOC, BIOL, or CHEM courses.

ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ALLIED HEALTH, BIOCHEMISTRY, BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES, AND
 CHEMISTRY MAJORS

All of the following requirements must be met to continue as an allied health, biological
sciences, biochemistry, or chemistry major. Failure to maintain these requirements
will result in a student being dropped from the major. Reentry to the major is by
petition only.

• A minimum cumulative GPA of 2.0 in all biological sciences, chemistry, biochemistry,
 math, and physics courses required for the major must be maintained.
• A student must complete each BIOC, BIOL, or CHEM course with a C- or higher for the course to meet a degree requirement in the Department of Biology
 or Chemistry.
• Any single class within the major can only be taken two times at APU; students must
 change to a major outside the department after two unsuccessful (below C- ) attempts in a single required course.
• Only two courses total within the major can be repeated; students must change to a
 major outside the department after unsuccessful (below C- ) attempts in any three required courses.
• All majors are required to take BIOL 496 to meet their general education Senior Seminar or Writing 3 requirement.
• While courses required of the major may be taken at other accredited institutions,
 subject to approval via a transfer inquiry form, both lecture and laboratory components
 must be taken at the same institution in the same semester.
• It is strongly recommended that freshmen in all biological sciences majors (including
 biochemistry) take General Chemistry I ( CHEM 151 ) and General Biology I ( BIOL 151 ) the first year, and that chemistry majors start with General Chemistry I ( CHEM 151 ) and Calculus I ( MATH 165 ) the first year. Should math placement assessment require algebra of the student,
 then that class should be taken the first year and a five-year program may be indicated.
• BIOL 151 should be taken by allied health, biochemistry, or biological sciences majors who
 receive AP biology credit. Many medical schools and graduate programs will not accept
 AP biology to meet requirements for admission. AP credit for BIOL 151 will be given only with approval of the chair of the Department of Biology and Chemistry.
• Students may take a maximum of 3 units total from BIOL 390 , BIOL 391 , BIOL 490 , BIOL 497 , or BIOL 498 a for elective credit toward the BS in Allied Health or the BS in Biological Sciences.
The following courses may not be taken to meet upper-division elective requirements
in any major in the department:

• BIOL 325 Humans and the Environment (4 units)
• BIOL 330 Gender Differences (3 units)
• BIOL 400 Science and Children (4 units)
• BIOL 470 Science for the MCAT (1 unit)
For more information, contact the
Student Services Center
at (626) 815-2020.

SCHOLARSHIPS AND GRANTS

Scholarships
and
grants
are considered gift aid, meaning they do not require repayment. These awards may
come from federal, state, institutional, or private sources. Scholarships are often
merit-based and awarded for academic achievement, leadership, or other demonstrated
talents.

While APU does award scholarships, you can also find external scholarship opportunities
through websites such as
Finaid
and
Fastweb
. Contact the
Student Services Center
about scholarships offered through APU departments or local organizations.

STUDENT EMPLOYMENT

Along with gift aid and student loans, you can apply for
on-campus student employment
opportunities to earn additional income to pay for education-related expenses. As
an APU student, you can also find work off campus in the surrounding community.

MILITARY AND VETERANS BENEFITS

If you are a veteran, serve in the military, or qualify as a spouse or dependent,
you may access financial assistance
that helps cover the cost of tuition, housing, and books. As a
Yellow Ribbon and Military Friendly School
, APU offers the support and flexibility needed to help you complete your bachelor’s
degree.

NET PRICE CALCULATOR

We’re committed to helping you understand the value of the APU experience early in
the college search process. Once you’ve explored the financial aid opportunities available,
take the next step by estimating your cost to attend. The Net Price Calculator provides
a personalized estimate based on the information you share, so you can start planning
today!

Calculate Net Price

To view specific requirements and coursework information, visit the current academic
catalog:
Programs Requirements

Programs Requirements

Azusa Pacific University is accredited by the WASC Senior College and University Commission
(WSCUC).

CAREER OUTLOOKS AND OUTCOMES

FEATURED FACULTY

PHILIP COX

Associate Professor, Department of Biology and Chemistry

MATTHEW BEREZUK

Professor, Department of Biology and Chemistry

JENNIFER YOUNG

Chair and Associate Professor, Department of Biology and Chemistry

See All Faculty

CULTIVATING STEM LEADERS THROUGH RESEARCH AS AN R2 INSTITUTION

APU recently announced a $2 million investment in state-of-the-art equipment which
will enable faculty and students to conduct cutting edge research, further bolstering
APU’s status as the only CCCU institution to receive the prestigious Carnegie R2 designation.

Read the Article

RELATED PROGRAMS

BIOCHEMISTRY MAJOR

• Azusa
Available Concentrations:

Pre-Health Professions, Research

BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES MAJOR

• Azusa
Available Concentrations:

Biological Systems, Ecological, Cellular and Molecular

PHYSICS MAJOR

• Azusa
Available Concentrations:

General Physics, Physics Secondary Education