FIRST-YEAR ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS

Competitive prospective students need to earn a high school diploma (or equivalent) and fulfill all UC first-year admission requirements, for first-year admission to UC Davis. Our campus then reviews and assesses all applications as part of our UC Davis first-year application review process.

A-G SUBJECT REQUIREMENTS

A.
History or social science: two years
B.
English or language of instruction: four years
C.
Mathematics: three years (four years recommended)
D.
Laboratory science: two years (three years recommended)
E.
Language other than English or other second language: two years (three years recommended)
F.
Visual and performing arts: one year
G.
College preparatory elective: one year

GPA REQUIREMENT

California residents need a GPA of 3.00 or higher. Non-residents of California need a GPA of 3.40 or higher.

CALIFORNIA RESIDENTS

The University of California offers two paths to admission, for high-achieving California residents: a statewide guarantee and a local guarantee. Learn more about
eligibility requirements
.

EXAM REQUIREMENTS

The University of California Board of Regents eliminated the standardized test requirement for all incoming first-year students in 2020.

SAT AND ACT TEST SCORES

UC Davis no longer considers SAT or ACT test scores for admissions decisions or scholarship awards.

Students can self-report ACT and or SAT scores in the admission application, but they must first submit the application without scores. Once the application is submitted, the student can log back into the application to report ACT or SAT scores. If a student self-reports a test score, they should provide the official score report when they receive an offer of admission from UC.

Test scores submitted as part of the application may be used as an alternate method of fulfilling minimum requirements for eligibility or for course placement after matriculation at UC.

Students who plan to use test scores to meet a minimum subject requirement or for course placement should take their tests no later than December of the last year prior to high school or secondary school graduation.

We do not require SAT Subject Tests; however, students sometimes use them to satisfy A-G requirements.

EXAM CREDIT

STAND OUT ON YOUR APPLICATION

UC Davis receives applications from more qualified students than we accept. We encourage you to challenge yourself with advanced coursework such as Advanced Placement, or AP and International Baccalaureate, or IB courses. Most AP and IB courses qualify as honors courses in GPA calculations for first-year applicants.

A score of 3, 4 or 5 on specific AP tests qualifies as credit for certain classes offered at UC Davis. Learn more about AP exams and view the
AP examination chart
for details on AP credit.

UC Davis awards 4 semester or 6 quarter units for International Baccalaureate, known as IB, diplomas with a score of 30 or higher. We also grant eight quarter units for individual Higher Level, known as HL, exams with a score of 5, 6, or 7. The university grants no credit for Standard Level, known as SL, exams. Learn more
about IB exams
and view the
IB Higher Level examination chart
for details on how to earn IB credit.