FINANCIAL AID FAQ

QUESTIONS ABOUT APPLYING FOR NEED-BASED FINANCIAL AID

WHY DO I HAVE TO FILL OUT FORMS IN ADDITION TO THE REQUIRED FINANCIAL AID FORMS (FAFSA, CSS PROFILE, ETC.)?

While the core of your financial aid application (FAFSA, CSS Profile, federal tax returns) don’t change from year to year, there may be new requirements and regulations or differences in your financial situation. In these cases, the Office of Financial Aid will request the additional documentation. Be sure to read all correspondence and requests from the Office of Financial Aid carefully and respond in a timely manner.

DO I NEED TO REPORT ANY 529 PLANS, AND WHAT HAPPENS WHEN THEY HAVE BEEN WITHDRAWN?

College savings plans allow a benefactor to deposit money into an account that will be used for the beneficiary’s college expenses. The buyer does not pre-purchase tuition credits as one does with a prepaid tuition plan. Rather, this type of plan is essentially a special savings account. The value of a 529 plan is reported differently on the FAFSA and the CSS Profile. On the FAFSA the parent will report the value of the 529 if the student is the named beneficiary of the account; 529 accounts for siblings are not reported as a parent asset on the FAFSA. On the CSS Profile, if the parent is the owner of the account, they are reported as parent assets. The Profile will ask what share of the 529 is in a sibling’s name. Distributions from 529 plans are not considered taxable income, so they will not appear in the benefactor or beneficiary’s subsequent tax return(s).

HOW DO I SUBMIT THE NONCUSTODIAL PROFILE WAIVER REQUEST FORM?

HMC expects both legal parents to contribute to the educational expenses of the student, regardless of marital status. In certain circumstances, students whose parents are divorced or never married may appeal to exclude their noncustodial parent from the financial aid process because it may be impossible for the noncustodial parent to complete the financial aid application. Noncustodial parent application waivers are considered when there are documented cases of abuse involving you and your noncustodial parent, legal orders that limit contact, or clear evidence of no contact or support from the noncustodial parent.

Appeals to waive the noncustodial parent’s participation typically occur when applying for your first year at HMC. You may request the waiver in one of two ways:

• Complete the CSS Profile Waiver Request for the Noncustodial Parent and submit it to HMC via IDOC. Be sure to provide enough information for our office to understand your family situation. Both the student and the primary/custodial parent must sign this form. All applications must include supporting documentation such as a signed letter from a third party. A third party is someone outside of your family that knows you well and can describe your family situation. They may be a counselor, social worker, teacher, doctor, therapist, or clergy. Statements from other family members or a family attorney cannot be accepted as a third party letter. Students may also provide a copy of a police report, restraining order or other documents to support their request for a waiver. OR
• Provide three letters detailing your family circumstances requesting we waive the noncustodial CSS Profile. We require a (1) signed letter from the student, (2) a signed letter from the custodial parent and (3) a signed letter from a third party that knows you well and can describe your family situation. The third letter may be from a counselor, social worker, teacher, doctor, therapist, or clergy. Statements from other family members or a family attorney cannot be accepted as a third party letter.

DO I HAVE TO APPLY FOR NEED-BASED FINANCIAL AID EVERY YEAR?

Yes, if you are interested in need-based financial aid assistance. The Office of Financial Aid must re-assess your financial need every year. Once enrolled at HMC, the deadline to re-apply for financial aid is March 2, and the deadline to submit supplemental documents (signed copies of federal tax returns, etc.) is April 15. Review the financial aid deadlines.

WILL MY FINANCIAL AID CHANGE NEXT YEAR?

If you receive need-based aid, your eligibility each year is determined by your financial need. The amount of your financial aid may change based upon a variety of factors. The most common factor that may change your financial aid is a change in your family’s financial situation. Changes in income, assets, family members in your household and/or attending college at least half-time (excluding parents) cause your family’s financial aid eligibility to shift. Also, changes to the Federal or Institutional Methodology, your financial need (each year’s costs less each year’s family contribution), the timeliness of your financial aid application, your grade level, and the availability of federal, state and HMC funds will affect your aid eligibility. Since we cannot guarantee a consistent level of funding from the federal and state levels, we cannot make any guarantees about future funding. However, in general, your total financial aid eligibility will remain as consistent as your family’s financial situation.

Additionally, students are expected to assume a greater share of their educational costs as they progress through college. Here’s the level of contribution students are expected to make year by year at HMC:

*These amounts represent total annual need-based loans. Due to individual loan program limits, some students may have to borrow from more than one type of student loan program.

ELIGIBILITY QUESTIONS

IF I RECEIVED AN OUTSIDE SCHOLARSHIP, HOW WILL THIS AFFECT MY ELIGIBILITY FOR AID?

Any scholarships or awards from private donors, civic organizations, corporations, foundations or other group are considered outside awards. If you receive an outside award, your Financial Aid Offer will be adjusted to take it into account. This means that if you receive an outside award, the amount of your overall Financial Aid Offer will not increase. Outside awards replace need based student loans and/or Federal Work-Study funds dollar for dollar. If outside awards replace need based loans and work in full, HMC may be required to reduce need-based HMC Scholarship but we encourage students to reach out to us if a student expects to receive significant outside scholarships.

Once you have been notified that you are a recipient of any outside scholarship, send the scholarship name, amount, foundation name, and renewal information to the Office of Financial Aid. You can notify us in three different ways by:

• Use the “Request Changes to your award here:” section on your signed Financial Aid Offer
• Email us at financial_aid@hmc.edu
• Send a copy of the scholarship notification letter

HOW WOULD MOVING OFF-CAMPUS AFTER MY FIRST YEAR AFFECT MY FINANCIAL AID?

When you live on-campus, your financial aid is determined from a cost of attendance that includes the exact cost of your housing and the 19-meal plan. The Office of Student Accounts bills you for housing and food when you live on-campus. For off-campus housing, however, the cost of housing and food will vary from student to student. In order to distribute HMC’s limited funds in the most equitable manner, we use a standard off-campus housing and food budget for students living off campus. Since off-campus housing and food costs depend on your specific lifestyle and situation, we do not adjust housing and food budgets for actual expenses.

For the 2025-2026 academic year, the off-campus housing allowance is $7,546 and the off-campus food allowance is $3,636 per year. If you are living with parents or relatives off-campus, the “at-home” housing and food budget is $4,063.

Generally, the off-campus allowance is less than the cost of on-campus housing and food. Therefore, if your contribution remains the same, moving off campus may decrease the amount of your need-based Harvey Mudd College Scholarship or other forms of aid.

WOULD BECOMING A DORM PROCTOR AFFECT MY FINANCIAL AID?

Dorm proctors receive a credit for 80 percent of their housing charge and 60 percent of the largest meal plan (the 19-meal plan) regardless of what meal plan they select.

These housing and food credits will lower the cost of attending HMC. The Financial Aid Offer we provide cannot exceed your federally calculated need, so we will adjust your Financial Aid Offer. This may mean a reduction in your Federal Work-Study and need-based student loans, followed by a reduction in scholarship or grant aid, if needed.

In many cases, however, the dorm proctor credits may not result in a reduction of your other awards because your federal financial aid eligibility may exceed your institutional financial aid eligibility. As a proctor, you may still decline any Federal Work-Study or need-based student loans because of this additional funding.

WHAT IF I NEED A NINTH SEMESTER OF AID?

HMC students are only eligible for the equivalent of four years of financial aid. These eight semesters may be taken at any time. Therefore, if you take a leave of absence and do not receive financial aid elsewhere, you are still eligible for financial aid until your eighth semester. If you need additional aid beyond an eighth semester, you must make a written appeal including your academic plan to the Office of Financial Aid. Students requiring an additional semester are eligible for federal financial aid. However, the HMC Scholarship funds and other college funding is contingent upon Office of Financial Aid approval of your written appeal.

HOW WILL MY FINANCIAL AID BE AFFECTED IF I STUDY ABROAD?

You will normally continue to receive assistance while studying abroad for a semester or a year. You’ll pay a comprehensive fee to HMC that is equal to tuition, housing, food, and fees. The fee covers the costs of the academic program, housing and food in the host country, and an allowance for round-trip transportation to the program site.

If your HMC study abroad program is through Arcadia University, you may apply for a need-based scholarships ranging between $500 and $5,000 for a full-year, semester or term from Arcadia University directly. For further information regarding this opportunity, you may visit  Arcadia University online and download application materials.

For scholarship opportunity for studying abroad, refer to the
Benjamin A. Gilman Scholarship Program
.  This scholarship provides awards for U.S. undergraduate students who are receiving Federal Pell Grant funding at a two-year or four-year college or university to participate in study abroad programs worldwide.

WHAT IF MY FAMILY’S FINANCIAL SITUATION CHANGES?

If your family experiences a drastic change in its financial situation due to job loss, you are able to submit an appeal to the Office of Financial Aid for a possible revision to your Financial Aid Offer.

If your family has already completed and submitted the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and CSS Profile, and provided the signed tax returns, have your parent(s) contact the Office of Financial Aid to request the Income Update and Expense Form to complete and attach supporting documentation (i.e., a letter from former employer about layoff, final pay stub, severance pay agreement, and copies of unemployment checks).

If your family has not applied for need-based financial aid, refer to steps in
applying for need-based financial aid
.

Contact the Office of Financial Aid with any additional questions.

WHAT IF MY SIBLING RECEIVES HIS/HER BACHELOR’S DEGREE OR COLLEGE ATTENDANCE CHANGES WHILE I’M STILL AT HMC?

Notify the Office of Financial Aid immediately once your sibling receives his/her bachelor’s degree. He/she is independent for financial aid purposes. Likewise, if you reported on your financial aid applications that a sibling will be attending college on at least half-time basis towards a degree or certificate program and their college attendance decreases you must notify the Office of Financial Aid.

In both cases, your parents’ contribution will increase and subsequently your eligibility for need-based Harvey Mudd College Scholarship and other need-based aid will decrease.

WHAT HAPPENS TO MY FINANCIAL AID ELIGIBILITY IF I GET MARRIED?

You will not necessarily receive more need-based financial assistance if you get married. According to federal regulations, you are still dependent on your parents for the academic year if you get married after you file the FAFSA. Dependency status cannot be updated based on marriage until the following academic year.

If you are married prior to filing the FAFSA, you will be considered an independent student for federal financial aid. This means that your parents won’t need to provide financial information on the FAFSA. They also won’t have to sign your application.

HMC does, however, require parental information on the CSS Profile application for all students under 24 years of age, regardless of marital status. HMC Scholarship aid will be based upon both the student’s and parents’ financial information, regardless of marital status. Thus, many married students receive the same amount of aid after they get married as they did before they got married.

If you’re married and won’t be receiving assistance from your parents but find that a parental contribution has been calculated for you, contact the Office of Financial Aid to discuss alternative financing options for the amount you’re unable to contribute from your and your spouse’s finances.