FILM

EXPLORE CUTTING-EDGE FILM, MEDIA AND PHOTOGRAPHY PROGRAMS AT MOUNT SAINT MARY’S UNIVERSITY

Mount Saint Mary’s University, Los Angeles offers film education like no other. Gain hands-on experience from your very first semester, fully immersing yourself in the creative process. With access to state-of-the-art podcast, recording and editing studios and film equipment through our
Hollywood Studio
, you’ll create your projects and shadow working professionals right in the heart of the industry. Our stunning campuses, used frequently as filming locations, provide unique backdrops for your productions and the opportunity to observe professional shoots right on campus. Unlike most programs, the Mount allows students to own all of their intellectual property for any projects created during their time at the university, even if they used the school equipment.

For those interested in journalism and photography, the majors Mount Saint Mary’s University offers provide an unparalleled opportunity to study with world-renowned faculty who bring their industry experience and expertise into the classroom. You’ll learn to craft compelling stories, master visual communication techniques, and develop the skills needed to excel in today’s fast-paced media landscape.

WE CREATED OUR OWN DOCUMENTARIES

CAREER OPPORTUNITIES AND PROGRAM OUTCOMES FOR FILM, MEDIA AND COMMUNICATION GRADUATES

Infused at the birth of the program over 20 years ago was the idea of uniting media with the message. With that at the core of our curriculum, students graduate from the Mount equipped with the skills and opportunities needed to join the next generation of impactful storytellers. All of our program faculty are active in the industry and will invite students to come along on their productions, often hiring students for actual industry projects. Our graduates have successfully launched careers in news production, feature filmmaking, music video production, radio broadcasting, web development and more, or pursued graduate degrees at USC, NYU, Columbia, Claremont, Loyola Marymount, among others.

Here are just a few places where our students went on to intern or work at:

FIND YOUR VOICE WITH OUR FILM, PHOTOGRAPHY AND JOURNALISM MAJORS

The Mount’s undergraduate degree programs in film, media and communication offer several majors, minors and emphases, allowing students to tailor their education to their career goals.

With access to state-of-the-art podcast, recording and editing studios and film equipment through our Hollywood Studio, you’ll create your projects and shadow working professionals right in the heart of the industry.

Our Weekend/Evening & Online College program also offers a
BA in Film and Media
and
BFA in Professional Photography
.

BA IN FILM AND MEDIA

The Bachelor of Arts in Film and Media at Mount Saint Mary’s offers early immersion in the technical and professional skills necessary for careers in the film, television and digital media industries. Through small class sizes, hands-on instruction and one-on-one mentoring, students gain experience in the development, production and post-production of cinematic storytelling. We are proud to offer our production-related courses on a working Hollywood studio in the heart of the entertainment capital of the world!

EMPHASES

Students enrolled in BA or BS film programs can select an optional area of emphasis, although choosing an emphasis is not required. An emphasis helps students focus their coursework in an area of special interest to them in preparation for their future careers. We offer seven emphases:

• Documentary : Emphasizes building artistic and technical skills in the production of cinematic nonfiction storytelling.
• Professional Photography : Provides a strong foundation in the aesthetics, technology and business of capturing the still image.
• Cinematography : Emphasizes controlling light, motion and the camera lens to tell cinematic stories.
• Film Studies : Focuses on academic analysis and the appreciation of film and media.
• Writing : Emphasizes fictional and nonfictional storytelling.
• Producing : Focuses on the budgeting, organization and management of media development, production and distribution.
• Audio Production : Teaches specific skills in recording, mixing and producing audio for live performance, studio, music and cinematic applications.

BFA IN PROFESSIONAL PHOTOGRAPHY

This program integrates liberal arts, ethics and professional business practices with a core photography and media production curriculum that prepares students for the creative business and technical challenges of a professional photography career. The BFA in Professional Photography program at MSMU gives students a hands-on experience from the first day of the first course. The curriculum provides students with both the technical foundation skills and critical-thinking tools that help students shape their own unique visions. We are proud to offer our courses in the heart of Hollywood at our Mount Saint Mary's Hollywood studio.

BA IN JOURNALISM AND NEW MEDIA

The Journalism and New Media major at Mount Saint Mary's gives our students a solid foundation in writing and critical skills along with a thorough education in digital video, web and mobile platforms. We give students the opportunity to become informed and credible new voices in society, ready to have a profound, meaningful influence upon the world. From news writing, podcasting and investigative journalism to sports reporting, documentary-making and photojournalism, students in the Journalism and New Media program learn the skills to identify — and give voice to — the world's most important issues.

BS IN FILM, MEDIA AND SOCIAL JUSTICE

A film studies and advocacy-focused degree, our Film, Media and Social Justice program offers a strong liberal arts and social science educational foundation. Students learn the latest industry practices and explore critical pedagogy to analyze, develop and produce media content that promotes positive social change. The foundation of this mission is rooted in the legacy of the Sisters of St. Joseph of Carondelet, founders of Mount Saint Mary’s University. Beginning in Le Puy, France, more than 350 years ago, the sisters served the world as strong social justice advocates and activists, working to improve the lives of the world's underrepresented populations and the most vulnerable among us.

MINORS

The Film, Media and Communications Department offers several minors for students looking to explore aspects of media studies or content creation in addition to their chosen fields. Minors are open to students of any program.
For each of the minors in the Film, Media and Communication Department, a total of 18 units of credit are required. Also, nine units of the 18 must be upper-division credits (3 UD courses), which can’t be used to fulfill requirements for the major, general education or another minor.

ACTING

Personal presentation, image management and the ability to command oneself with confidence in multiple situations are skills applicable for students in nearly any major. The minor in acting prepares students for performance in the theater, in front of the camera and on the proverbial global stage. Our core acting classes are taught by Ray Ford, a working actor.

DOCUMENTARY

The minor in documentary provides students in any major with the foundational artistic and technical skills needed to produce cinematic nonfiction content to tell and/or address the compelling stories of today.

FILM AND MEDIA

Video has emerged as a key aspect of human communication. The minor in film and media introduces students to the core elements of creative media production and digital storytelling that can be applied in nearly any occupation or field of study.

FILM, MEDIA & SOCIAL JUSTICE

Media continues to be a powerful force in shaping public attitudes and addressing contemporary issues. This minor in film, media and social justice will empower you — no matter your major — to critically analyze media messages, address traditional industry trends of gender and race representation and harness media content as a tool for social change.

GENDER AND MEDIA

The minor in gender and media prepares students of any major to critically analyze the role and representation of women — and gender as a whole — in the entertainment industry, while empowering students to be forces for positive change and gender equality.

JOURNALISM AND NEW MEDIA

From video blogging and investigative journalism to social issue reporting and ethics, students from any major who add a minor in journalism and new media will learn the foundational skills to identify today's dynamic stories and important issues. Students will utilize both traditional journalistic research and writing infused with the latest media trends.

MULTIMEDIA COMMUNICATION

We live in a media-saturated world. The minor in multimedia communication introduces students of any major to the fundamentals of modern media creation and mass communication, including image manipulation, public relations and video production.

PROFESSIONAL PHOTOGRAPHY

The minor in photography at the Mount gives students in any major an opportunity to complement their studies with a well-rounded survey of photographic courses. In today’s visual world, the ability to create and understand unique imagery is an added value in any sector of business, both for-profit and non-profit.

CLASSES THAT SHAPE MEDIA INNOVATORS AND CREATORS

Step into the world of film, media and communication at the Mount, where you’ll explore courses designed to ignite your creativity and develop technical skills. Discover some of our standout class offerings below.

Explore how film and media — from documentaries to video games — can be powerful tools for social change, diving into critical social issues and human rights through a justice-focused lens.

Master professional editing techniques with Avid Media Composer and work toward earning your Avid certification, all under the guidance of an Avid Certified Instructor. An Avid certification is a sought-after skill for entry-level roles in the industry.

Create compelling audio content for radio, podcasts and beyond as you learn from NPR film critic Tim Cogshell. In the past, Cogshell invited his audio storytelling class to attend a pre-Oscars event!

Our programs really are so much about “What is your creative voice?” Let us help you find that voice, cultivate it, and take that voice and share it with the world in the best way that you can.

BRIDGE CLASSROOM LEARNING WITH REAL INDUSTRY EXPERIENCE

• Production Workshop Experience The Production Workshop Experience at Mount Saint Mary’s University offers an immersive, hands-on journey into every stage of filmmaking. Spanning three semesters, students can develop their scripts in a collaborative writers’ room environment offered as a summer class. In the fall, the department funds the production of one of the scripts from the summer class.

PRODUCTION WORKSHOP EXPERIENCE

The Production Workshop Experience at Mount Saint Mary’s University offers an immersive, hands-on journey into every stage of filmmaking. Spanning three semesters, students can develop their scripts in a collaborative writers’ room environment offered as a summer class. In the fall, the department funds the production of one of the scripts from the summer class.

• Internship Internships are another powerful way for film, media and communication majors at Mount Saint Mary’s University to gain hands-on experience and make valuable industry connections. Students can earn up to 12 academic credits through internships tailored to their specific career interests, whether in film production, screenwriting, TV programming, entertainment marketing and more.

INTERNSHIP

Internships are another powerful way for film, media and communication majors at Mount Saint Mary’s University to gain hands-on experience and make valuable industry connections. Students can earn up to 12 academic credits through internships tailored to their specific career interests, whether in film production, screenwriting, TV programming, entertainment marketing and more.