MUSIC
DEPARTMENT

DEVELOP YOUR MUSICAL SKILLS WITH PROFESSORS WHO ENCOURAGE YOUR CREATIVITY AND RELATE CHRISTIAN FAITH TO THE ART AND CRAFT OF MUSIC.

Engage in the serious study, composition and performance of great music at an advanced level. Discover the vital role music plays in the liberal arts and the Westmont community. Choose from the B.A. degree in music on the general, music performance, and music composition tracks or earn the professional Pre-Teaching Credential (B.M.) degree that leads to a public school teaching credential. You may also choose the Bachelor of Music (B.M.) degree in performance with a concentration in voice, orchestral instruments and piano. Study at a school accredited by the
National Association of Schools of Music (NASM)
.

• Music Major Flyer
• Program Review
• Westmont in the Arts

PURSUE YOUR CALLING AS A MUSIC STUDENT AT WESTMONT

ALUMNI STORIES

Isaac Kay ’16
graduated from Westmont with a degree in music, focusing on violin performance, studying at the Heidelberg Opera House, touring Italy with the orchestra, and performing as a concerto soloist. He did graduate work at the University of Denver’s Lamont School of Music and the San Francisco Conservatory of Music and is completing a Doctor of Musical Arts at the University of Colorado Boulder. A member of the Colorado Springs Philharmonic, he has performed with the Omaha Symphony, Santa Barbara Symphony, Boulder Philharmonic and New World Symphony and has received fellowships at the Aspen Music Festival and School, among others. His violin students at Westmont won the concerto competition and attended music festivals. Isaac has created and hosts a new docuseries, Travel Notes, that seeks unity and connection through music.

Carissa Corrigan ’24
double majored in Music Education and History and is featured on Westmont’s 2023 Outstanding Graduates list. Carissa studied music in an abroad program in Vienna, Austria in 2022. While pursuing her Single Subject Teaching Credential in Music through Westmont’s Teaching Credential Program, Carissa was a student music teacher at Adams Elementary School. She “worked hard to incorporate material that would be relevant and interesting to [her] students while still providing them with the nutrients to build musical literacy,” and of course, share the joy of music. Carissa is now the Music Teacher at Harding University Partnership School here in Santa Barbara and is the Coordinator for the Camerata Ensemble and Philharmonia Orchestra through Santa Barbara Symphony’s Youth Ensembles Program

MUSIC CAREER PATHS

The versatility of a music degree leads our graduates to find fulfilling careers across a range of fields
such as performing musician, music teacher, church music, music publishing, music management, music business, recording, broadcasting, and more.

Performing musician
Music teacher
Church music
Music publishing
Music management
Music business
Recording
Broadcasting

FACULTY AND STAFF

This talented and dedicated group of educators and musicians brings a wealth of expertise in performance, composition, music theory, and music history. They inspire and guide students in a nurturing and dynamic environment, fostering a deep appreciation for the art of music. Their commitment to excellence enriches our vibrant musical community.

PLEASE JOIN US AT THE FOLLOWING CONCERTS:

• Saturday, 14th: Boyd Hall, Hancock College, 7:00 p.m.
• Monday, 16th: Gracepoint Church in Lodi, 3:00 p.m.
Both concerts are free, all are welcome!

Looking for Tour Stops from February 13-17th, 2026: The 50 member Westmont College Orchestra is looking for performance venues for President's day weekend. Would you like to host them at your church, community, retirement center or school? Contact the Westmont College Music Department today via email at
music@westmont.edu
.

Westmont Music students were honored to be invited by UCSB Arts&Lectures to join a special Q&A session with the one and only Yo-Yo Ma. Collegiate musicians from UCSB and Westmont joined together at the Arlington Theatre before Mr. Ma's evening performance to hear stories, wisdom, and advice from the acclaimed cellist. We are grateful for our continued partnership with UCSB Arts&Lectures and for their exceptional and educational programming throughout the year.

This is just one example of the abundant opportunities that our Music students have as they study at Westmont. Follow us
@westmontmusic
to keep up to date with more exciting opportunities and events throughout the school year!

WESTMONT ENSEMBLES

WESTMONT COLLEGE CHOIR

Founded with the college in 1937, the Westmont College Choir continues as a living legacy of Westmont’s spirit and mission, drawing singers from all areas of academic study together in worship and service for the community. The College Choir represents Westmont in the Santa Barbara community, featured at the annual Westmont Christmas Festival at the Granada Theatre, as well as in performances with the Santa Barbara Symphony and other local ensembles. Internationally, the College Choir has toured extensively, including in Italy, Austria, Germany, Costa Rica, Guatemala, the United Kingdom, and Japan.  Currently under the direction of alumnus Dr. Daniel Gee ‘13, the College Choir celebrates the diversity of cultural influences in Southern California, particularly highlighting Spanish-language choral music alongside the traditional Western concert repertoire.

College Choir Press Kit

WESTMONT CHAMBER SINGERS

the Westmont Chamber Singers features Westmont’s top vocal talent and has become a regular and sought after performing presence in Santa Barbara’s vibrant music scene. Currently led by Dr. Daniel Gee, the Chamber Singers perform extensively and in a myriad of contexts, from the majestic Bellosguardo Estate, to the Grace Fisher Winter Showcase in the Granada Theatre, to the dedication of the U.S.S. Santa Barbara at the Rosewood Miramar Hotel, to private events in Santa Ynez Wineries. Inquiries for performances can be sent to music@westmont.edu.

WESTMONT ORCHESTRA

The Westmont College Orchestra, conducted by Dr. Ruth Lin, performs original literature, transcriptions, and arrangements. Included in this are works for full orchestra, string orchestra, and small ensembles. The study and practice includes various style periods and composers from the Renaissance through the Twenty First Century. The orchestra performs two major independent concerts each semester, as well as a combined Christmas concert with the choral ensembles and a major works program in the spring with the College Choir and plays for the annual opera production. Typically, the orchestra is made up of circa 60 students. Faculty specialists coach each section of the orchestra, including Dr. Han Soo Kim (violin), and Dr. Paul Mori (wind, brass and percussion).

College Orchestra Press Kit

WIND CHAMBER MUSIC

Various Wind Chamber Ensembles, directed and coached by Dr. Paul Mori and Andrea Di Maggio, are organized for brass, woodwind, and percussion players. The various chamber ensembles perform throughout the semester. Typical groups include a woodwind quintet, 5 brass sextet, brass choir, and flute ensemble. Other ensembles form to meet student interest and abilities.

BRASS ENSEMBLE

A wide range of music from contemporary jazz to hymn arrangements mixed with classical pieces.

STRING CHAMBER MUSIC

Offering traditional string quartets, trios and other ensembles. These groups have an active presence on campus and throughout the Santa Barbara community.

• College Choir MUA 071/171
• Chamber Singers MUA 072/172
• Westmont Orchestra MUA 083/183
• Wind Chamber Music MUA 081/181
• Brass Ensemble
• String Chamber Music

GIVE TODAY TO SUSTAIN THE EXCELLENCE OF WESTMONT MUSIC

Consider supporting the future of Westmont Music by making a gift today. By giving to Westmont Music, you are investing in the continual growth and success of our talented students.

MUSIC ON WESTMONTTV

TITLE
YOU JUST HAVE TO SEE IT FOR YOURSELF

ENVISION YOUR FUTURE AT WESTMONT’S STUNNING CAMPUS, WHERE THE ENVIRONMENT FUELS CREATIVITY AND PERSONAL GROWTH.