ART
DEPARTMENT

VISUAL ARTISTS AND ART HISTORIANS: FIND YOUR AUTHENTIC CREATIVE VOICE!

Explore your talents in the midst of critical dialogue, freedom and discovery. Study in the context of a Christian community of scholars who, with curiosity and conviction, strive to live out grace and truth. The art major focuses on thinking and doing in concert. With its studio and historical components, the department designs courses to equip students with skills, habits and knowledge to be discerning, faithful participants in the art world and in the visual culture of today. Since we see spiritual, intellectual and creative maturity as a unified whole, we strive to model this synthesis in our own art-making, research, and teaching endeavors. We also expect our students to cultivate a desire for learning and to bring a Christian sensibility to all aspects of art-making and viewing

Follow the Art Department on Instagram

• Art Major Flyer
• Program Review
All Majors and Programs

DO YOU HAVE THE DISCIPLINE TO DEVELOP YOUR ART?

ALUMNI STORIES

Katie King Rumford ’06
, received her BA in Studio Art from Westmont, went on to complete her MFA in Graphic Design at the Academy of Art University. Working at first as a creative director for Selman Design in New York City, Katie has gone on to establish her own business as a freelance art director, working for such clients as Google and Facebook. Her work has been featured in the New York Times and been recognized by Communication Arts magazine.

Betsy Freeman ’16
has built a career as a graphic and product designer in San Francisco. In 2022, she wrote and illustrated “The One & Done Cookbook” with Stone Pier Press. Reflecting on her time at Westmont, she credits the experience with shaping both her professional confidence and her deeper understanding of success.

Abigail Stadtlander ’22
, combined her studio art major with a minor in art history, becoming a sharp interpreter of texts and images whose lively classroom presence inspired both peers and professors. Currently, she works in creative project management at Donut Digital.

Read More Alumni Stories

ART CAREER PATHS

The knowledge and skill sets gained from a Westmont education will serve you well in a wide range of visual arts-related careers. Our alumni have found success as exhibiting gallery-based artists, as elementary/high school art teachers, as illustrators and graphic designers, as textile and fashion designers, as curators and consultants, and some have even gone on to complete their MFA and become college professors of art in their own right. Whatever your goals—from professional practice to graduate degree program—the Department of Art at Westmont is committed to helping you find your career path.

Graphic design
Gallery-centered fine art
Photography
Illustration
Art education

Gallery management
Museum education
Museum curator
Arts ministry

• Explore Art Graduates' Career Paths
• Explore Art History Graduates' Career Paths
Professional Resources

RIDLEY-TREE MUSEUM OF ART

The Westmont Ridley-Tree Museum of Art seeks to educate students and the larger community about the power and value of the visual arts in our world through physical, critical and spiritual engagement with the creative process and its result.

FACULTY AND STAFF

Professor of Art

Professor of Art

Read more

Associate Professor of Art

Associate Professor of Art

Read more

Associate Professor of Art

Associate Professor of Art

Read more

Professor of Art

Professor of Art

Read more

Curator and Collections Manager of Westmont Ridley-Tree Museum of Art and Ceramics Instructor

Curator and Collections Manager of Westmont Ridley-Tree Museum of Art and Ceramics Instructor

Read more

Administrative Assistant
Email:
pnoormand@westmont.edu
Tel: (805) 565-6026
Office: ADM 202

Administrative Assistant

Email:
pnoormand@westmont.edu
Tel: (805) 565-6026
Office: ADM 202

AREAS OF CONCENTRATION

Our Studio Art program fosters creative expression through hands-on projects, providing a solid foundation in various mediums for success in the art world.

Explore Studio Art

In our Art History program, students delve into the rich tapestry of artistic heritage. Exploring diverse cultures and time periods, they analyze and interpret art, gaining a deep understanding of its historical and cultural significance. The program equips students with critical thinking skills, preparing them for engaging careers in art research, curation, and education.

Explore Art History

Our Graphic Arts program integrates artistic creativity and technical skills for careers in graphic design and illustration. Through hands-on projects, students gain a strong foundation in design principles and digital tools, fostering creativity for success in the dynamic field of graphic arts.

Explore Graphic Arts

• Studio Art
• Art History
• Graphic Arts

ART STUDENT OPPORTUNITIES

In addition to your coursework, the art major takes full advantage of access to the creative community of Santa Barbara and Greater Los Angeles. We take regular field trips to Los Angeles art institutions and have strong local connections to galleries and multiple museum spaces.

While you are a student we offer a number of exhibition/presentation opportunities including your capstone senior exhibition in the
Ridley-Tree Museum
, solo shows in our ARTLAB gallery spaces, a group Sophomore Project exhibition, and student-led creative publications like the
Phoenix
,
Yearbook
, and
Horizon Magazine
.

Additionally we encourage students to start early in their professional journey through
internships
,
study abroad
, and participating as a vendor in the annual student art Holiday sale or curating an exhibition in the Artlab Galleries.

Follow us on
Instagram
and learn more.

STUDIOS & FACILITIES

We value studio life and creative discovery made in community. With dedicated personal studio space for seniors, student run laboratory galleries, and outdoor patios for socializing, we hope our students will make Adams Center their locus for making and building life-long friendships.

SCHOLARSHIPS & AWARDS

The Art Department has five endowed scholarship opportunities for incoming and continuing art students awarded on a competitive basis. Departmental awards for outstanding students are available to those who demonstrate excellence and promise in studio art and art history.

Applicants must be
admitted
to Westmont College, be actively considering
majoring in studio art or art history
, and
submit the required application materials
online to be eligible for scholarships

Applicants must be a
declared studio art or art history major
and
submit the required application materials
online to be eligible for scholarships

• Apply for Studio Art & Art History Scholarships

OPPORTUNITIES ABROAD

Westmont in San Francisco

Westmont in Europe Semester

Gordon in Orvieto, Italy

IAU College, Aix-en-Provence, France

TITLE
YOU JUST HAVE TO SEE IT FOR YOURSELF

ENVISION YOUR FUTURE AT WESTMONT’S STUNNING CAMPUS, WHERE THE ENVIRONMENT FUELS CREATIVITY AND PERSONAL GROWTH.