English remains one of the most various, comprehensive, and “liberalizing” of the liberal arts. The study of English familiarizes us with the written documents that define the past and give meaning and purpose to the present; it investigates the sources and structure of language; it enriches our awareness of language in written and oral forms; it stirs the creative and recreative impulses; and it provides us with multiple ways to envision our world and ourselves.

Students who wish to major in English may choose one of three plans, each of which provides a coherent program with a particular emphasis. After a core of required courses, students will follow programs leading to a Bachelor of Arts in English degree with a concentration in English and American Literature, Creative Writing, or English Education (that is, preparation for students entering post-baccalaureate English Single Subject teacher credentialing programs). The Department of English offers one of Sonoma State University’s most robust graduate programs; the MA in English offers students the choice of an emphasis in literary criticism, creative writing, or rhetoric and English education.

In addition to its majors, the department serves many other students who take English courses to improve their writing and reading skills, to develop a double major field, or to pursue interests in some aspect of literature, language, or creative writing. English is the field most frequently chosen by students combining fields of study in an interdisciplinary major – for example, literature and sociology, literature and history, literature and art, linguistics and sociology. For further information on all undergraduate and graduate programs, see the link about “Academic Programs” on the left side of the page.

Students who have majored in English work in business, public relations and advertising, broadcasting, journalism, publishing, law and government service, as well as in elementary, secondary and college teaching. Those who go on to work in these varied fields will benefit from the skills of interpretation, argument, and human interaction that the study of English provides. Our graduates can express themselves clearly, rigorously, and passionately. They understand the relationship between language and authority, and they gain the tolerance for ambiguity, the sensitivity to nuance, and the knack for combining wit and hard work that all contribute to innovative and creative problem-solving.

The Department of English also publishes an exciting variety of professional and student publications, including
Zaum
, a literary journal run and operated by students. Students have the opportunity to gain experience by participating in the production of their own journals through formal classwork. For more information, see the link to “Publications” on the left side of this page.

If you’re interested in majoring or minoring in English, please contact our office or drop in on a faculty member’s
open office hours
. If you are interested in graduate work, please contact our
English MA Coordinator.
We look forward to working with you.

ANNOUNCEMENT

Danielle Cobarruviaz
shares her thoughts
about the English Education track of the English Major.

Dr. Chingling Wo presents "
Finding Chinese Labor in Petaluma, a River Boomtown
", Saturday, February 21st.

Hannah Hellman, English alum and
EdEon STEM Learning
employee, published an article for the Texas Computer Education Association (TCEA) blog
Tech Notes.
Hellman's article
Solarpunk and Rural Education
bridges the humanities and STEM by connecting rural education to the literary genre Solarpunk.

Award-winning poet
and English alumnus will speak Monday, November 10th, 12:00 PM in the Bennett Valley Room.

Learn MORE
about the courses being offered for spring 2026.

Sophia Rodriguez (2007)
publishes her new volume
"Undocumented in the U.S. South: How Youth Navigate Racialization in Policy and School Contexts (Critical Issues in American Education)"

Congratulations to our English students
graduating with distinction
in spring and summer 2025.

CAPS offers urgent and ongoing therapy appointments for students

Kathleen Winter mentee, Aisha Mendonca Kamath, was chosen to represent SSU at the 2024 COPLAC Virtual Midwest/West Regional URSCA Conference on November 9th with her presentation
"How to Govern a Good City"

Dr. jen johnson and her team have
received a grant
for
Building Transformational Cultures of Data Use for Student Success.

WHERE TO FIND