POLITICS AND THE ART OF GOVERNING IN THE 21ST CENTURY

Are you interested in American politics, the law, international relations, issues
of representation, as well as the intersection of race and gender in politics? Want
to learn more about how governments allocate power and resources? If so, you should
consider studying political science.

Political Science examines how policies are made within and among nations in the contemporary
world. Students in Political Science learn to analyze, describe, and predict political
behavior. The discipline is a science, but the study of people and power also requires
an understanding of both rational and sentimental behaviors in politics.

CSU Bakersfield offers a Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) Degree in Political Science. Within
the major, there are emphases and related curriculum programs designed to advance
specialized career objectives:

• Pre-Law Learn essential concepts, theories, and research methods vital for attorneys and professionals
 working with common and statutory law.
• Learn essential concepts, theories, and research methods vital for attorneys and professionals
 working with common and statutory law.
• Power and Justice Explore fundamental concepts and methods of studying the relationships between individuals,
 groups, and systems that shape social and economic opportunities, with a focus on
 U.S. institutions at national, regional, state, and local levels.
• Explore fundamental concepts and methods of studying the relationships between individuals,
 groups, and systems that shape social and economic opportunities, with a focus on
 U.S. institutions at national, regional, state, and local levels.
• Global Politics Study the complex interactions between U.S. domestic politics and global relations,
 examining both state and non-state actors, including interest groups, NGOs, and paramilitary
 organizations.
• Study the complex interactions between U.S. domestic politics and global relations,
 examining both state and non-state actors, including interest groups, NGOs, and paramilitary
 organizations.
• American Politics Learn the foundational concepts, theories, and methods of American government, while
 developing research, analytical, and communication skills related to government and
 policy applications.
• Learn the foundational concepts, theories, and methods of American government, while
 developing research, analytical, and communication skills related to government and
 policy applications.
• History-Social Science Teacher Preparation Program * A curriculum approved by Commission on Teacher Credentialing for high school teaching

DEPARTMENT OF POLITICAL SCIENCE

California State University, Bakersfield
9001 Stockdale Highway, 26 BDC
Bakersfield, CA 93311-1022

(661) 654-2141
Location: Business Development Center 248A -
Maps