OFFICE OF FINANCIAL AID & SCHOLARSHIPS

The
Cal Poly Pomona
Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships provides students with the financial resources and related services necessary to achieve their educational goals. We are committed to providing accurate, user-friendly, responsive, and respectful service to students and their families.

We administer federal, state, and university aid and scholarship programs in accordance with applicable policies and regulations while striving to be an innovative and service-minded department.
We also provide outreach and services in collaboration with other university departments and the community
.

School code: 001144

Apply
.
Earn
.
Become
. Each year, The California University Foundation (CSU Foundation) proudly offers a diverse range of scholarships, helping CSU students achieve their goals through the support of generous donors.

Whether you’re leading, creating or building your future, there may be an opportunity waiting for you!

Apply through the
Bronco Scholarship Portal
.
Deadline May 1st
. You can also find other scholarships through the
CSUIP Study Abroad
website.

The
2026-27
FAFSA
and
CADAA
priority deadline has passed, but applications are still being accepted. These applications are for the 2026-27 academic year (Fall 2026, Spring 2027, Summer 2027).

Complete your application as soon as possible - some aid is first-come, first-served.

RESOURCES

VIDEO ANSWERS 24/7

Search our library of short videos to get answers to your financial aid questions - 24/7!

ASK BILLY

Have a question? Get help now.

FINANCIAL AID STUDENT FORMS

Access financial aid forms.

MORE FROM FAS

MY CPP

Access your MyCPP account.

VETERANS

CPP CPGE

College of Professional and Global Education

MORE FROM FAS

SAP

Understanding Satisfactory Academic Progress for Aid Applicants

FINANCIAL WELLNESS

Many students do not have the opportunity to learn financial skills in school or at home. Cal Poly Pomona is committed to providing resources for our students on how to manage money and create financial freedom.

SUMMER FINANCIAL AID

Attending summer at Cal Poly Pomona is a great way to make up credits, make up a class you may have dropped, or just get ahead in your coursework and completing your degree! Financial aid may be available to help cover some of the costs of taking classes during the summer.

CONTACT US

CONTACT US

LOCATION

Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships
Student Services Building 121
Cal Poly Pomona
3801 West Temple Ave.