• HOME
• curric
• NanoEngineering

CHEMICAL AND
NANOENGINEERING (CNE)

[
graduate program
|
courses
|
faculty
]

BUSINESS AFFAIRS:
240 Structural Materials Engineering Building, Warren College

STUDENT AFFAIRS:
241 Structural Materials Engineering Building, Warren College

https://cne.ucsd.edu/

All courses, faculty listings, and curricular and degree requirements described herein are subject to change or deletion without notice. The
Aiiso Yufeng Li Family Department of Chemical and Nano Engineering website
is the best reference for up-to-date information and requirements.

DEPARTMENTAL FOCUS

The Aiiso Yufeng Li Family Department of Chemical and Nano Engineering (CNE) offers two distinct engineering programs: chemical engineering and NanoEngineering. This dual-program structure fosters unique opportunities for interdisciplinary research and innovation. At CNE, we are dedicated to bridging the gap between nanoscale discoveries and large-scale manufacturing, transforming laboratory breakthroughs into real-world solutions through scalable innovation. Our collaborative culture encourages research that integrates fundamental science with applied engineering, often focusing on the translation and scale-up of emerging technologies for practical use. The department’s research strengths broadly lie in nanoscale materials and technologies for healthcare and renewable energy. We are committed to preparing our students to succeed in an increasingly dynamic technological world. This means cultivating not only a solid technical foundation but also the ability to collaborate across disciplines and adapt to evolving challenges. At the core of our mission is educating the next generation of engineers to be versatile, innovative, and collaborative leaders.

DEGREE AND PROGRAM OPTIONS

The Aiiso Yufeng Li Family Department of Chemical and Nano Engineering offers two undergraduate programs. One program leads to the BS in chemical engineering. The other program leads to the BS in NanoEngineering.

The NanoEngineering Program (BS) is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of
ABET
, under the commission’s “General Criteria” with no applicable program criteria.​ The Chemical Engineering Program (BS) is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, under the commission’s
General Criteria and Program Criteria for Chemical, Biochemical, Biomolecular Engineering
and Similarly Named Engineering Programs.

NANOENGINEERING PROGRAM (NANO)

PROGRAM OBJECTIVES

The Aiiso Yufeng Li Family Department of Chemical and Nano Engineering focuses on nanoscale science, engineering, and technology that have the potential to make valuable advances in different areas that include new materials, biology and medicine, energy conversion, sensors, and environmental remediation, to name a few. NanoEngineering is a highly diversified and multidisciplinary field. The graduate research programs cover a broad range of topics, but focus particularly on biomedical nanotechnology, nanotechnologies for energy conversion and storage, computational nanotechnology, and molecular and nanomaterials. Undergraduate degree programs focus on integrating nanoscale science, technology, and engineering disciplines necessary for successful careers in the evolving nanotechnology industry.

The program educational objectives of the NanoEngineering Program are:

• NanoEngineering graduates will have a strong technical background, enabling them to be successful in careers that cross traditional areas of applied science and engineering.
• NanoEngineering graduates will be fluent in a multidisciplinary body of knowledge for participating in and seeding new technologies.
• NanoEngineering graduates will constitute a high-technology workforce with professional, scientific, and technical skills.
• NanoEngineering graduates will conduct themselves ethically and knowledgeably in a wide range of professional environments.

THE UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAM

The BS in NanoEngineering is tailored to provide breadth and flexibility by taking advantage of the strength of basic sciences and other engineering disciplines at UC San Diego. The NanoEngineering major focuses on nanoscale science, engineering, and technology that have the potential to make valuable advances in different areas that include new materials, biology and medicine, energy conversion, sensors, and environmental remediation. The intention is to graduate nanoengineers who are multidisciplinary and can work in a broad spectrum of industries.

All NanoEngineering courses are scheduled to be consistent with the curriculum shown in the tables below. Students must follow the prescribed curriculum that pertains to their student category (four-year or transfer). Unavoidable deviation from the curriculum, for example, to participate in the Education Abroad Program, must be approved by the Undergraduate Affairs Committee prior to taking alternative courses elsewhere. Courses such as NANO 195, 197, and 198 are not approved to meet upper-division NanoEngineering elective major requirements. NANO 199 can be used as a NanoEngineering elective only under restrictive conditions. Policy regarding these conditions may be obtained from the department’s Student Affairs Office. To graduate, students must maintain an overall GPA of at least 2.0, and the department requires at least a C– grade in each course required for the major. Every course required for the major (except NANO 4 and NANO 199) must be taken for a letter grade, including all CENG and technical elective courses. This also includes all MATH, BILD, CHEM, and PHYS courses. All courses used to fulfill major requirements must have a grade of C– or higher. All students are encouraged to visit
the Aiiso Yufeng Li Family Department of Chemical and Nano Engineering website
for the most current information.

GENERAL EDUCATION/COLLEGE REQUIREMENTS

For graduation, each student must satisfy general-education (GE) course requirements determined by the student’s college, as well as the major requirements determined by the department. The eight colleges at UC San Diego require widely different general-education courses, and the number of such courses differs from one college to another. Each student should choose his or her college carefully, considering the special nature of the college and the breadth of general education.

MAJOR REQUIREMENTS

Please note that there was a curriculum change and students admitted prior to fall 2020 should review previous catalog copies regarding requirements.

Basic sciences and mathematics (sixty units):
This lower-division requirement includes twenty-four units of mathematics (MATH 20A-E and MATH 18 (formerly MATH 20F), sixteen units of physics (PHYS 2A–D), sixteen units of chemistry (CHEM 6A–C, 7L), and four units of biology (BILD 1).

Engineering preparation (twelve units):
This requirement covers basics in computer programming, circuit analysis and circuits lab (NANO 15, 107, and 108).

NanoEngineering core
(forty-seven units):
This requirement constitutes a one-unit seminar (NANO 4) and nine core courses (NANO 11, 20L, 102, 104, 110, 111, 112, 115L, 117, 119, 120A, 120B, and 148).

NanoEngineering electives (twenty units):
The five elective courses requirement must be chosen from among the upper-division NANO courses offered by the department (NANO courses numbered 100 through 199).

Every course used for the degree (except NANO 4 and NANO 199) must be taken for a letter grade. All students follow the same basic science preparation and core set of classes in NanoEngineering during the first two years.

NANOENGINEERING CURRICULUM PLAN

The curriculum plan for the NA25 Nanoengineering major can be found on the department website at
https://cne.ucsd.edu/undergrad-programs/degree/bs-nanoengineering/curriculum
.

ADMISSION TO THE NANOENGINEERING MAJOR

Effective winter 2026, NanoEngineering is designated as a screened major. Students who are not admitted directly into the major will need to complete a series of screening courses before they can declare Nanoengineering as their major. Information on applying to change majors can be found below.

FIRST-YEAR ADMISSION

First-year students who have excelled in high school and have declared Nanoengineering on their UC San Diego application are eligible for direct admission into the major. Students will be notified by the UC San Diego Office of Admissions whether or not they have been admitted into their chosen major based on admissions criteria and their ranking in the applicant pool.

TRANSFER STUDENTS ADMISSION

The undergraduate engineering curriculum is designed to integrate four years of college educational experience. It will take transfer students two or three years to complete the major requirements, beyond their community college work, for the NanoEngineering Program. Most students need to take MATH 20E (Vector Calculus) at a UC as it is not usually available in community colleges. Transfer students must take NANO 4 and NANO 11 in their first year. Students should consult their adviser for a transition program compatible with their community college preparation.

Requirements for admission as a NanoEngineering major or into NanoEngineering courses are the same for transfer students as they are for continuing students (see section on “
Acceptance to Departmental Majors in the Jacobs School of Engineering
” in this catalog). Accordingly, when planning their program, transfer students should be mindful of lower-division prerequisite course requirements, as well as for meeting collegiate requirements.

Students who have taken equivalent courses elsewhere may request to have transfer credit apply toward the department’s major requirements. To receive transfer credit, complete an Undergraduate Student Petition and submit it to Student Affairs. For mathematics, chemistry, and physics, the respective department determines transfer equivalencies. An Undergraduate Student Petition form must be submitted to each department from which you are requesting transfer credit.

The following courses are required for all engineering transfer students for success in their major. Community college equivalent courses can be found at
https://assist.org
.

• Calculus I—for Science and Engineering (MATH 20A)
• Calculus II—for Science and Engineering (MATH 20B)
• Calculus and Analytic Geometry (MATH 20C)
• Differential Equations (MATH 20D)
• Vector Calculus (MATH 20E) or MATH 20E Requirement Fulfillment Exam administered through the Department of Mathematics
• Linear Algebra (MATH 18)
• Complete calculus-based physics series (PHYS 2A-B-C-D)
• General Chemistry with lab experience (CHEM 6A-B-C plus 7L)
• Biology (BILD 1)

CONTINUING CHANGE MAJOR STUDENTS

Effective winter 2026, NanoEngineering is designated as a screened major. Fall 2025 is the last quarter for continuing students to switch to NanoEngineering without completing the required screening courses. Students interested in changing majors will need to meet all screened major eligibility requirements in order to apply to NanoEngineering.

Screened Major Eligibility Requirements:

• Overall UC San Diego GPA of 2.0 or above
• Letter grade of C– or above in all screening courses
• Required screening courses: First-year admits: MATH 20A-C, MATH 18; CHEM 6A-C, PHYS 2A, NANO 4* Transfer students: MATH 20A-D, MATH 18; CHEM 6A-C; PHYS 2A-C; NANO 4* or NANO 11 or NANO 15
• First-year admits: MATH 20A-C, MATH 18; CHEM 6A-C, PHYS 2A, NANO 4*
• Transfer students: MATH 20A-D, MATH 18; CHEM 6A-C; PHYS 2A-C; NANO 4* or NANO 11 or NANO 15
• No outstanding grades for screening courses (e.g., Incompletes, pending Academic Integrity case, pending transfer credit, etc.)
• Students who entered UC San Diego as First-years must apply prior to the start of their seventh quarter at UC San Diego (summer quarters not counted). Students who entered UC San Diego as transfers must apply prior to the start of their fourth academic quarter (summer quarters not counted).
Students can apply to switch into NanoEngineering by using the
Major/Minor Tool
on TritonLink. Students with 150+ units will need to submit a quarter-by-quarter plan. Please allow a 2–3 week turnaround time for applications to be reviewed.

UC San Diego students that have questions about applying to the NANO major are encouraged to reach out to the CNE Undergraduate Advising office early in their planning to ensure they are on track to be as successful as possible once in the program.

Additional information regarding screened majors can be found on the Division of Undergraduate Education website:
https://undergrad.ucsd.edu/academics/selective-major-process/screened-major-guidance.html#request-to-change-major
.

* NANO 4 is restricted to NA25 majors. Nonmajors interested in enrolling must submit an EASy request for approval.

ACADEMIC ADVISING

Upon admission to the major, students should consult the catalog or the Aiiso Yufeng Li Family Department of Chemical and Nano Engineering website (
https://cne.ucsd.edu/
) for their program of study, or their undergraduate adviser if they have questions. The program plan may be revised in subsequent years, but revisions involving curricular requirements require approval by the undergraduate adviser or the Undergraduate Affairs Committee. Because some course and/or curricular changes may be made every year, it is imperative that students consult with the department’s undergraduate adviser on an annual basis.

In addition to the advising available through the Student Affairs Office, programmatic or technical advice may be obtained from faculty members.

As aforementioned, NanoEngineering courses should be taken in the recommended sequence. If courses are taken out of sequence, it may be impossible to complete the major within the nominal four-year period.

PROGRAM ALTERATIONS/EXCEPTIONS TO REQUIREMENTS

Variations from or exceptions to any program or course requirements may be possible only if the Undergraduate Affairs Committee approves a petition before the courses in question are taken.

INDEPENDENT STUDY

Students may take NANO 199, Independent Study for Undergraduates, under the guidance of a NanoEngineering faculty member. This course is taken as an elective on a P/NP basis. Eligible students must have completed at least ninety units and must have a cumulative GPA of 3.0 or better. Two NANO 199 courses are required to fulfill the NanoEngineering elective major requirement and must be done in consecutive quarters. Students must find a faculty member who will oversee the research project. After obtaining the faculty member’s approval on the topic and scope of the study, the student must submit a
Special Studies Course form
(each quarter) and a
NANO 199 Contract form
to the Undergraduate Affairs Committee. These forms must be completed, approved, and processed prior to the add deadline. After the second quarter is completed, the student must submit an Undergraduate Student Petition to have the work accepted as two NanoEngineering elective courses. A final report, with an assigned letter grade, must be attached to the petition for the faculty member and Undergraduate Affairs Committee to review. Detailed policy in this regard may be obtained from the Student Affairs Office.

PROGRAM ACCREDITATION

The NanoEngineering Program (BS) is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, under the commission’s “General Criteria” with no applicable program criteria.

CONTIGUOUS BS/MS PROGRAM

A contiguous, terminal program leading to a bachelor of science and a masters in NanoEngineering is available to students with junior standing, who have an upper-division STEM GPA of 3.0 (effective for fall 2024 admissions) or better and a 3.0 overall UC San Diego GPA.

During the last quarter of their junior year (more specifically, the fourth quarter prior to the receipt of the BS), students interested in obtaining the MS within one year following receipt of the BS may apply to the Aiiso Yufeng Li Family Department of Chemical and Nano Engineering for admission to the program. Students must submit three letters of reference from professors with their application.

Students will meet the requirements of both the BS and MS programs, such as courses and credits.
There are no overlaps in courses.
Upon completion of the BS/MS program, students are not automatically eligible for admission to the PhD program.

CHEMICAL ENGINEERING PROGRAM (CENG)

PROGRAM OBJECTIVES

The BS in chemical engineering program has affiliated faculty from the Aiiso Yufeng Li Family Department of Chemical and Nano Engineering, Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, and the Department of Bioengineering. The curricula at both the undergraduate and graduate levels are designed to support and foster chemical engineering as a profession that interfaces engineering and all aspects of basic sciences (physics, chemistry, and biology). The Chemical Engineering Program (BS) is accredited by the
Engineering Accreditation Commission of
ABET
, under the commission’s General Criteria and Program Criteria for Chemical, Biochemical, Biomolecular Engineering
and Similarly Named Engineering Programs.

The Program Educational Objectives of the Chemical Engineering Program are to produce chemical engineering alumni who, a few years after completing the program:

• will be employed in a wide range of industrial, professional, and academic environments using their strong technical chemical engineering education and communication skills.
• work with a strong sense of humanistic values and professionalism such that they can conduct themselves ethically and knowledgeably regarding technological impact in societal issues.
• work collaboratively in multidisciplinary teams to solve complex problems that may require different approaches and viewpoints.
• will continue their personal improvement and multidisciplinary development, enabling them to respond to rapidly changing technological environments throughout their career.
The curriculum is designed to prepare chemical engineering graduates for further education and personal development throughout their entire professional career. We strive to accomplish these goals by providing a rigorous and demanding curriculum that incorporates lectures, discussions, laboratory and project development experiences in basic sciences, mathematics, engineering sciences, and design as well as the humanities and social sciences.

THE UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAM

The Chemical Engineering Program (BS) is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, under the commission’s “General Criteria and Program Criteria for Chemical, Biochemical, Biomolecular Engineering.” The curriculum is tailored to provide breadth and flexibility by taking advantage of the strength of basic sciences and other engineering disciplines at UC San Diego. The intention is to graduate chemical engineers who are multidisciplinary practitioners and can work in a broad spectrum of industries rather than solely traditional chemical and petrochemical industries.

Areas of specialization are available whereby a graduate can be in a position for a career in nanotechnology, environmental technology, microelectronic device fabrication, materials and polymer processing, pharmaceutical and biotechnology, biomedical engineering, energy and thermal systems, control and system engineering, and so forth.

For students who aspire to pursue a graduate degree and a career in research and development, the units in an area of specialization can be allocated to more fundamental science and engineering courses. These students are also encouraged to perform independent projects in one of the faculty research laboratories or groups.

Whether the career goal is industry or graduate or professional school, the curriculum has a strong emphasis on developing problem-solving skills and the ability to think and learn independently. The capstone courses are the senior design and process lab courses. Students learn to participate in project teams, refine their communication skills, and work on various design and experimental projects that, over two quarters, introduce them to elements of project planning, execution, analysis, and improvement.

Entering first-year students will follow the course work guidelines detailed in this section. Continuing students will continue with their current set of course work guidelines outlined in previous general catalogs. The Student Affairs Office can provide the proper curriculum tables. All students are encouraged to visit
the Aiiso Yufeng Li Family Department of Chemical and Nano Engineering website
for the most current information.

Deviations from these programs of study must be approved by the Undergraduate Affairs Committee prior to taking alternative courses. In addition, technical elective (TE) course selections must have departmental approval prior to taking the courses. Courses such as CENG 195, 197, and 198 are not allowed as a technical elective in meeting the upper-division major requirements. CENG 199 can be used as a technical elective only under restrictive conditions. Policy regarding these conditions may be obtained from the department’s Student Affairs Office. To graduate, students must maintain an overall GPA of at least 2.0. Every course required for the major (except CENG 4 and CENG 199) must be taken for a letter grade, including all CENG and technical elective courses. This also includes all MATH, BILD, CHEM, and PHYS courses. All major requirements must have a grade of C– or higher.

Students with different academic preparation may vary the scheduling of lower-division courses such as math, physics, and chemistry, but should consult the department. Deviations in scheduling chemical engineering upper-division courses are discouraged and require prior approval. Most lower-division courses are offered more than once each year to permit students some flexibility in their program scheduling. However, all chemical engineering upper-division courses are taught only once per year, and courses are scheduled to be consistent with the curricula as shown in the tables.

GENERAL EDUCATION/COLLEGE REQUIREMENTS

For graduation, each student must satisfy general-education course requirements determined by the student’s college as well as the major requirements determined by the department. The eight colleges at UC San Diego require widely different general-education courses, and the number of such courses differs from one college to another. Each student should choose his or her college carefully, considering the special nature of the college and the breadth of general education.

PROFESSIONAL LICENSING

After graduation, all students are encouraged to take the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination as the first step in becoming licensed as a professional engineer (PE). Students graduating from our accredited program can take the PE examination after FE certification and two years of work experience; students graduating from a nonaccredited program can take the PE examination after FE certification and four years of work experience.

For further information please contact your local Board of Registration for Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors.

MAJOR REQUIREMENTS

To receive a BS in chemical engineering, students must complete general-education (GE) requirements of their colleges in the arts, humanities, and social sciences. The balance consists of basic sciences (fifty-four units), chemistry core (twelve units), chemical engineering core (thirty-three units)—includes a one-unit introductory seminar and laboratory course (CENG 4) that is required of all incoming first-year and transfer students, process laboratory and design (sixteen units), general engineering (twelve units), and technical electives (twelve units).

The specific breakdown is as follows:

BASIC SCIENCES (FIFTY-FOUR UNITS):

This lower-division requirement includes twenty-four units of mathematics (MATH 20A–E and MATH 18, formerly MATH 20F), fourteen units of physics (PHYS 2A–C, 2CL), and sixteen units of chemistry (CHEM 6A–C, 7L).

CHEMISTRY CORE (TWELVE UNITS):

Three advanced chemistry electives must be selected from among the preapproved list: CHEM 130, 131, 132, CHEM 41A-C*, CHEM 43A, 114A (or BIBC 100), 114B (or BIBC 102), or 120A-B. (Note: Students may not receive credit for both BIBC 100 and CHEM 114A, or BIBC 102 and CHEM 114B).

CHEMICAL ENGINEERING CORE (THIRTY-THREE UNITS):

This requirement covers chemical process modeling, solution thermodynamics, transport phenomena, chemical reaction engineering, process control, and unit operations (CENG 4, 100/110, 101A-C, 102, 113, 120, 122).

PROCESS LABORATORY AND DESIGN (SIXTEEN UNITS):

This requirement is crucial to fulfilling the chemical engineering program (BS) goals by providing hands-on and experiential instruction in the areas of project design, unit operations, hazards analysis, ethics, and economic analysis. (CENG 124A-B, 176A-B).

GENERAL ENGINEERING (TWELVE UNITS):

This requirement covers basics in computer programming, probability and statistics, and instrumentation. The computer programming requirement should be satisfied with a course in MATLAB (CENG 15). Probability and statistics can be satisfied with CENG 114. Instrumentation is satisfied with CENG 170.

TECHNICAL ELECTIVES (TWELVE UNITS):

Electives are intended to broaden and enhance professional goals. They may be chosen to achieve either breadth or depth in one’s education. All electives must be upper-division courses in engineering. Suggestions are listed below.

NANO 103, 242, 244, 262
CENG 160, 207, 254, 256
BENG 100, 101, 109, 110, 112A, 112B, 130,186A

NANO 107
CENG 134, 157
ECE 103, 134, 135A, 136L

NANO 141A, 141B
MAE 104, 131A, 149, 160

NANO 141A, NANO 114B
MAE 104, 105, 107, 140, 149

ESYS 103, MAE 119, 122, 125, 126A, 126B, 127

CENG 134/NANO 134
NANO 100L, 159, 174, 174L
ECE 134
MATS 201A, 201B, 201C, 205A, 227

NANO 102, 103, 104, 106,108, 110, 111, 112, 140, 145, 146, 148, 150, 156*, 158, 159, 161, 162, 164, 168, 175**, 253
CENG 134, 157, 175**, 207/NANO 243, 208, 211, 212, 213, 214, 215

*NANO 156 and MAE 166 are cross-listed courses; CENG majors must enroll in NANO 156.

**NANO 175 and CENG 175 are cross-listed courses and credit cannot be given for both.

MAE 140, 142, 143A, 144, 149, 180A
ECE 171B
BENG 122A

MAE 110, 113, 118, 119, 120

Two consecutive quarters of independent research can be approved as equivalent to two technical elective courses (eight units). See the Independent Study section below.

Students are allowed to take one of the following four-unit “Teams in Engineering Service” courses: ENG 100D or ENG 100B and ENG 100L or two quarters of ENG 100L as an approved Engineering Focus elective. Click on the following link for more information about Global Ties:
http://globalties.ucsd.edu/
.

CHEMICAL ENGINEERING CURRICULUM PLAN

The curriculum plan for the CE25 chemical engineering major can be found on the department website at
https://cne.ucsd.edu/undergrad-programs/degree/bs-chemical-engineering/curriculum
.

ADMISSION TO CHEMICAL ENGINEERING

The chemical engineering major is a selective major. Because of significant student interest in the major, and the limited resources available to accommodate this demand, maintenance of a high-quality program makes it necessary to limit enrollments.

FIRST-YEAR ADMISSION

First-year students who have excelled in high school and have declared chemical engineering on their UC San Diego application are eligible for direct admission into the major. Students will be notified by the UC San Diego Office of Admissions whether or not they have been admitted into their chosen major based on admissions criteria and their ranking in the applicant pool.

The UC San Diego Office of Undergraduate Admissions will calculate an admissions target number and admit the appropriate number of incoming first-year students into the capped major using the UC San Diego Holistic Review score as a ranking method. Students who meet the UC San Diego admission criteria will be admitted into their chosen selective major, starting with the student having the highest holistic review score, until the admission target number is reached. These students will be notified directly by the Office of Undergraduate Admissions whether they have been admitted into their chosen selective major.

First-year students who applied but were not admitted directly from high school into the selective chemical engineering major will be admitted into the major indicated as their second choice on the UC application (providing it is an “open” major).

CONTINUING UC SAN DIEGO STUDENTS

First-year students not directly admitted into the chemical engineering major will need to apply using the continuing student application after their first three quarters (end of spring quarter) or after the end of their sixth quarter (end of spring quarter). A certain number of continuing students who apply will be selected to enter the selective chemical engineering major.

Continuing students will be required to complete the following courses
prior
to applying:

(must apply after three quarters):
https://cne.ucsd.edu/undergrad-programs/admissions

Screening courses: MATH 20A, 20B, 20C, PHYS 2A, 2B, CHEM 6A, 6B, 6C, 7L

(must apply after six quarters):
https://cne.ucsd.edu/undergrad-programs/admissions

Screening courses: MATH 20A, 20B, 20C, 20D, MATH 18 (formerly MATH 20F), PHYS 2A, 2B, 2C, 2CL, CHEM 6A, 6B, 6C, 7L

Beginning summer 2025, selective majors allow students to apply to switch once per year. Selection will be based on a point system that considers academic performance and other factors: California residency, first-generation status, and Pell eligibility. Only students who have completed the required screening courses and have a minimum 2.0 UC GPA are eligible to apply. Additional information regarding the application process for changing to a selective major can be found here on the Department of Undergraduate Education website:
https://undergrad.ucsd.edu/academics/selective-major-process/index.html
.

TRANSFER STUDENTS ADMISSION

The chemical engineering curriculum is designed to integrate four years of college educational experience. It is not easy for transfer students to complete the major requirements in only two additional years beyond their junior college work.

If students have completed most GE requirements for their college and all lower-division science and mathematics course work, they can complete the rigorous two-year curriculum plan found on the CNE department website at
https://cne.ucsd.edu/undergrad-programs/degree/bs-chemical-engineering/transfer-students
.

Requirements for admission as a chemical engineering major into chemical engineering courses are the same for transfer students as they are for continuing students. Accordingly, when planning their program, transfer students should be mindful of lower-division prerequisite course requirements, as well as for meeting collegiate requirements.

Students who have taken equivalent courses elsewhere may request to have transfer credit apply toward the department’s major requirements. To receive transfer credit, complete an Undergraduate Student Petition form and submit it to the Student Affairs office. For mathematics, chemistry, and physics, transfer equivalencies are determined by the respective departments. An Undergraduate Student Petition form must be submitted to each department from which the student is requesting transfer credit.

Effective fall 2009, these courses are required for all engineering transfer students for success in their major. Community college equivalent courses can be found at
https://assist.org.

• Calculus I—for Science and Engineering (MATH 20A)
• Calculus II—for Science and Engineering (MATH 20B)
• Calculus and Analytic Geometry (MATH 20C)
• Differential Equations (MATH 20D)
• Vector Calculus (MATH 20E) or MATH 20E—Requirement Fulfillment Exam administered through the Department of Mathematics
• Linear Algebra (MATH 18, formerly MATH 20F)
• Complete calculus-based physics series with lab experience (PHYS 2ABC-CL)
• General Chemistry with lab experience (CHEM 6A-B-C plus 7L) (except computer science and computer engineering majors)
All transfer students must take CENG 4 and CENG 15 (MATLAB) in the fall or winter of their first year at UC San Diego. Transfer students may petition to take CENG 15 concurrently with CENG 100, and CENG 101A concurrently with MATH 20E.

If students do not come in with all the above courses, it will most likely take three years to graduate. For the three-year/four-year curriculum, please go to
https://cne.ucsd.edu/undergrad-programs/degree/bs-chemical-engineering/
.

As of fall 2025, transfer students are not eligible to apply to change to the chemical engineering major if they were not admitted directly into the major.

ACADEMIC ADVISING

Upon admission to the major, students should consult the catalog or the Aiiso Yufeng Li Family Department of Chemical and Nano Engineering website (
https://cne.ucsd.edu/
) for their curriculum and program of study. Students should contact the CNE Student Affairs team if they have questions. The program plan may be revised in subsequent years, but revisions involving curricular requirements require approval by the undergraduate adviser or the Undergraduate Affairs Committee. Because some course and/or curricular changes may be made every year, it is imperative that students consult with the department’s undergraduate adviser on an annual basis.

Chemical engineering courses are offered only once a year and therefore should be taken in the recommended sequence. If courses are taken out of sequence, it may not always be possible to enroll in courses as desired or needed. If this occurs, students should seek immediate departmental advice. When a student deviates from the sequence of courses specified for each curriculum in this catalog, it may be impossible to complete a chemical engineering major within the normal four-year period.

In addition to the advising available through the Student Affairs Office, programmatic or technical advice may be obtained from CNE faculty members.

PROGRAM ALTERATIONS/EXCEPTIONS TO REQUIREMENTS

Variations from or exceptions to any program or course requirements are possible only if a petition is approved by the Undergraduate Affairs Committee before the courses in question are taken. Additional information on submitting undergraduate petitions can be found on the CNE website at
https://cne.ucsd.edu/undergrad-programs/degree/advising/student-petitions
.

INDEPENDENT STUDY

Chemical engineering students may take CENG 199, Independent Study for Undergraduates, under the guidance of a chemical engineering faculty member. This course is taken as an elective on a P/NP basis. Eligible students must have completed at least ninety units and must have a cumulative GPA of 3.0 or better. The two CENG 199s must be done in consecutive quarters and the student must find a faculty member who will oversee the research project. After obtaining the faculty member’s concurrence on the topic and scope of the study, the student must submit a Special Studies form (each quarter) and
CENG 199 Contract form
to the Student Affairs Office for Undergraduate Affairs Committee review/approval. These forms must be completed, approved, and processed prior to the add deadline. After the second quarter is completed, the student must submit an Undergraduate Student Petition to have the work accepted as two technical elective courses.

A final report, with an assigned letter grade, must be attached to the petition for the faculty member and Undergraduate Affairs Committee to review. Detailed policy in this regard and the requisite forms may be obtained from the Student Affairs Office.

PROGRAM ACCREDITATION

The Chemical Engineering Program (BS) is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, under the commission’s “General Criteria and Program Criteria for Chemical, Biochemical, Biomolecular Engineering.”

CONTIGUOUS BS/MS PROGRAM

A contiguous, terminal program leading to a bachelor of science and a master’s in chemical engineering is available to students with junior standing who have an upper-division STEM GPA of 3.0 (effective for fall 2024 admissions) or better and a 3.0 overall UC San Diego GPA.

During the last quarter of their junior year (more specifically students who will be completing one academic year prior to the receipt of the BS), students interested in obtaining the MS within one year following receipt of the BS may apply to the Aiiso Yufeng Li Family Department of Chemical and Nano Engineering for admission to the program. Students must submit three letters of reference from professors with their application.

Students will meet the requirements of both the BS and MS programs, such as courses and credits.
There are no overlaps in courses.
Upon completion of the BS/MS program, students are not automatically eligible for admission to the PhD program.