BACHELOR OF ARTS (BA) IN LIBERAL STUDIES

Explore your higher calling in the Bachelor of Arts in Liberal Studies program at
Azusa Pacific University and step into your purpose-filled future.

Request Information

• Home
• >
• Programs
• >
• Bachelor of Arts (BA) in Liberal Studies

WHY MAJOR IN LIBERAL STUDIES AT APU?

APU’s Bachelor of Arts in Liberal Studies program offers a rich, interdisciplinary
education that prepares you for a meaningful career as an elementary school teacher.

To meet the demands of today’s classrooms, the liberal studies major aligns with California
Common Core subject-matter standards, strengthens your academic foundation, and allows
you to specialize in English, math, the arts, and other concentrations.

The BA in Liberal Studies fulfills California’s subject-matter requirement for a Preliminary
Multiple Subject or Education Specialist Credential. To earn your California teaching
credential, you must complete an approved educator preparation program through
APU’s integrated credential pathways
.

During your time as a liberal studies major, you’ll benefit from

• a comprehensive curriculum that explores pedagogical theory, child development, and
 core academic subjects;
• focused concentrations that allow you to tailor your preparation to your academic
 interests;
• a culturally responsive, Christ-centered approach to education that equips you to
 care for and inspire students from diverse backgrounds; and
• personalized mentorship and support from the School of Education faculty.
Review Admission Requirements

PROGRAM AT A GLANCE

Our world needs passionate, competent teachers like you. APU’s
School of Education
empowers individuals to guide young learners with expertise and kindness through
a Christ-centered community and a dedication to academic excellence.

UPCOMING EVENTS

APU One Day

• Saturday, June 13, 2026
• Saturday, July 11, 2026

APPLICATION DEADLINE

At APU, we have rolling admissions. This means we accept and review applications on
a continuous basis.

Apply Now

PROGRAM INFORMATION

• Program Units: 67-107

LOCATION

• Azusa (Main Campus)
Yellow Ribbon and Military Friendly School

WHAT YOU”LL LEARN

Our BA in Liberal Studies curriculum blends content-area subject matter, education
courses, and service-learning experiences, all applied through a Christian worldview.

The core education classes explore the history and expectations of the teaching profession,
the cognitive science of learning, children’s literacy, human development, and content-specific
topics. You’ll round out your expertise by choosing a concentration from a wide range
of options, including art, Spanish, music, and more. Along the way, you’ll participate
in at least 50 hours of teacher-oriented field experience to bring education theory
to life and build your confidence in the classroom.

Upon graduating from the program, you’ll

• design effective, standards-aligned lessons across math, science, literacy, history,
 and the arts for TK-8 learners;
• apply the science of learning and child development to support academic growth and
 whole-child formation;
• create inclusive, culturally responsive classrooms that meet the needs of all learners;
• strengthen communication and literacy expertise, including public speaking, children’s
 literature, and the structure of the English language; and
• infuse creativity, critical thinking, and faith-informed perspective into elementary
 education practice.
BA in Liberal Studies Degree Requirements

GET STARTED

LIBERAL STUDIES PROGRAM DETAILS

The liberal studies major offers a curriculum that grounds you in the principles of
teaching (pedagogy)and launches your journey to becoming an educator in kindergarten
through eighth-grade settings. The program structure equips you with strong content
knowledge and opportunities to turn theory into practice as you work with students
in real schools.

As you lead in diverse classroom environments and connect with learners, you’ll ignite
your passion and move toward a thriving career with purpose.

As a liberal studies major, you can select a concentration that strengthens your content
knowledge and prepares you for future credential pathways. These focused areas also
offer opportunities to complete additional units toward a Supplementary or Subject
Matter Authorization, broadening your teaching qualifications.

Our liberal studies concentrations include:

• Art
• English
• Human Development: School Psychology
• Human Development: Special Education
• Mathematics
• Music
• Science
• Social Science
• Spanish
Learn more about each concentration’s course requirements.

Interested in pursuing an undergraduate degree program that incorporates earning your
teaching credential? Azusa Pacific University offers several CTC-approved educator
pathway options:

• Liberal Studies, BA, with Integrated Extensive Support Needs or Mild to Moderate Support
 Needs Education Specialist Credential
• Liberal Studies, BA, with Integrated Multiple Subject Teaching Credential
These bachelor’s degrees allow you to advance seamlessly from foundational coursework
into credential preparation so you can transition into leading your own classroom.

We created a straightforward
undergraduate admissions process
that helps you take the next step toward a purpose-filled education.

The prerequisites and required next steps for applying to APU may vary depending on
your student type. For more detailed admissions information, select your enrollment
path:

• First-time Freshman
• Transfer Student
• International Student
Azusa Pacific University makes a Christ-centered education affordable and accessible.
To help you cover the cost of your liberal studies bachelor’s degree, we offer a range
of
financial aid
options, including federal loans, state grants, fellowships, and scholarships.

For more information, contact the
Student Services Center
at (626) 815-2020.

SCHOLARSHIPS AND GRANTS

Scholarships
and
grants
are considered gift aid, meaning they do not require repayment. These awards may
come from federal, state, institutional, or private sources. Scholarships are often
merit-based and awarded for academic achievement, leadership, or other demonstrated
talents.

While APU does award scholarships, you can also find external scholarship opportunities
through websites such as
Finaid
and
Fastweb
.

Contact the
Student Services Center
about scholarships offered through APU departments or local organizations.

STUDENT EMPLOYMENT

Along with gift aid and student loans, you can apply for
on-campus student employment
opportunities to earn additional income to pay for education-related expenses. As
an APU student, you can also find work off campus in the surrounding community.

MILITARY AND VETERANS BENEFITS

If you are a veteran, serve in the military, or qualify as a spouse or dependent,
you may access financial assistance
that helps cover the cost of tuition, housing, and books. As a
Yellow Ribbon and Military Friendly School
, APU offers the support and flexibility needed to help you complete your liberal
studies degree.

NET PRICE CALCULATOR

We’re here to help you understand the value of the APU experience early in the college
search process. Once you’ve explored the financial aid opportunities available, take
the next step by estimating your cost to attend. The Net Price Calculator provides
a personalized estimate based on the information you share, so you can start planning
today!

Calculate Net Price

Calculate Net Price

BY THE NUMBERS

CAREER OUTCOMES FOR LIBERAL STUDIES MAJORS

Earning a BA in Liberal Studies prepares you to inspire learners and shape the next
generation. With strong pedagogical training and broad subject-matter expertise, you
can pursue positions in public and private schools, teaching students from kindergarten
through 8th grade.

If you want to teach in California public schools, you must complete a state-approved
credential program and secure proper teaching licensure. Alternatively, many private
schools in California do not require teachers to possess a valid teaching credential.

Beyond classroom teaching, you can also pursue roles in curriculum development, educational
support services, and other areas that influence elementary learning inside and outside
traditional school settings.

STUDENT PORTRAITS: JESSICA LOGAN ’21, LIBERAL STUDIES

Jessica Logan ’21 discovered her calling through the liberal studies program and now
inspires students to love learning, especially in mathematics. With a heart for teaching,
she guides young learners with creativity and care.

DEPARTMENT OF TEACHER EDUCATION FACULTY

Our faculty members are steadfast in their commitment to training ethical, responsive,
and effective teachers. Throughout your time in the liberal studies major, you’ll
receive personalized mentorship and career guidance from experienced professors.

CATHERINE HAHS BRINKLEY

Chair and Assistant Professor, Department of Teacher Education; Program Director, Liberal Studies/Undergraduate Education, K-8

PAUL FLORES

Professor, Department of Teacher Education

Meet Your Faculty

START YOUR LIBERAL ARTS JOURNEY AT APU

Your career in education begins with a Bachelor of Arts in Liberal Studies from Azusa
Pacific University. Here, you’ll strengthen your teaching methods and deepen your
understanding of theory, building a Christ-centered foundation to help young learners
grow.

Develop your God-given talents to help others learn and grow. Apply to Azusa Pacific
University today!

Apply Now

RELATED PROGRAMS

BA IN LIBERAL STUDIES WITH INTEGRATED MULTIPLE SUBJECT TEACHING CREDENTIAL

• Azusa
Available Concentrations:

Liberal Studies

SOCIAL SCIENCE MAJOR

• Azusa

INTERDISCIPLINARY STUDIES MAJOR

• Azusa