CONTACT ADMISSIONS

Before submitting a ticket or making an appointment,
use the
Ask Elbee Chatbot
in the bottom right corner of your screen. Elbee is available 24/7 and can answer frequently asked questions related to Admissions; Financial Aid and Scholarships; and Student Records.
Our general office hours are Monday - Friday 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m, with closures on designated
University Holidays
.

FOR FURTHER SUPPORT, EXPLORE THE RESOURCES BELOW:

SUBMIT A HELP TICKET

Whether you have a question about your application, enrollment deposit, transcripts, Associate Degree for Transfer (ADT), residency requirements, or more—the Admissions team is here to help.

VISIT THE BEACH CENTRAL INTAKE WINDOWS

For general questions or to drop off documents, visit the Beach Central Intake Windows anytime between M-F between 9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. on the
first floor of Brotman Hall.

California State University, Long Beach
Enrollment Services
1250 Bellflower Blvd.
Long Beach, CA 90840

SUBMIT OFFICIAL TRANSCRIPTS

If you need to submit
official
transcripts to CSULB, they may be mailed in their original, sealed institution envelope(s) to:

California State University, Long Beach
Enrollment Services: Admissions
1250 Bellflower Blvd.
Long Beach, CA 90840

Electronic copies of official transcripts can be sent directly from the high school, college, or university via a transcript submission service (such as Parchment or College Guidance Initiative) to
ES-IDPTrans@csulb.edu
. Official transcripts are not accepted via email and cannot be forwarded by the student.

Official transcripts can also be dropped off in their original, sealed institution envelope(s) at the Beach Central Intake Windows on the first floor of
Brotman Hall
.

SCHEDULE A COUNSELING APPOINTMENT

For more unique questions, CSULB has a knowledgeable team of Admissions Counselors who are available to meet with you virtually to discuss your case.

If you have any supporting documents related to your case, please have them ready for your appointment.

If you're an international student, we encourage you to reach out to
CIE-Apply@csulb.edu
for assistance or book an appointment at:
CSULB International Enrollment Management Office
"

MORE WAYS TO GET IN TOUCH

Phone:
For general questions, give Beach Central a call via 562.985.5471. Office hours are Mon. - Fri. 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m..

Mobile App:
Download the Beach Connect mobile app
to schedule advising appointments, book tutoring sessions, connect with Beach Central (support with Admissions; Financial Aid and Scholarships; and Student Records), and more. Plus, check for registration holds, get important deadline reminders, and explore academic support resources.