FINANCIAL AID

ONE BIG BEAUTIFUL BILL ACT

On July 4, 2025, the
One Big Beautiful Bill Act (OB3)
was passed by the 119
th
Congress and signed into law. Beginning
July 1, 2026
, significant changes to the Federal Student Aid programs will impact how students and families pay for higher education. We anticipate that final guidance regarding OB3 will be available on or before
July 1, 2026
. We will share updates as they become available.
Please refer to the OB3 web page for further information
.

“CIVILIZATION PROSPERS WITH COMMERCE”

Preparing students for thoughtful and productive lives and responsible leadership.

CMC is committed to meeting 100% of a student’s demonstrated financial need. CMC recognizes and encourages all eligible students to apply for financial assistance.

CMC’s application process is generally need-blind*, meaning an applicant’s ability to pay is not factored into the admission decision. However, CMC’s application process is need-aware, meaning an applicant’s ability to pay may be factored into the admission decision for international students, transfer students, and applicants placed on CMC’s waitlist.

The Kravis Opportunity Fund, established in 2018, increases student access through a range of benefits and support structures for families that have fewer resources. Building on our foundational commitment to students, the Opportunity Fund model increases student access through a range of benefits and support structures, including:

• Family Weekend Travel funding for low-income families to visit CMC;
• Guaranteed funding of up to $5,000 for an approved first-year summer internship or experience for all students receiving need-based financial aid;
• Summer Savings grant for all first-year students receiving a first-year summer internship or experience grant;
• Kick-off Grants of $2,000 per low-income student to cover the costs of bedding, interview and Athenaeum attire, and technology (laptop, cell phone, etc.);
• Financial support for students to participate in College-sponsored networking trips, research travel, academic conference attendance, participation in our job shadowing program, and other endeavors during the academic year.
* This policy applies to all U.S. citizens or eligible non-citizens and DACA or undocumented students. This policy does not extend to transfer and waitlist students.

100%

Need-blind for U.S. citizens and eligible non-citizens*

100%

Of a student's demonstrated financial need is met

48%

Of students receive financial aid

20%

Of students are Pell Grant recipients

FAQS FOR APPLICANTS

We're ready for your questions

FAQ

MERIT AID

Awarded by the Office of Admission

Expanding Opportunities

APPLY FOR FINANCIAL AID

Estimate your aid today.

Application Information

ESTIMATE YOUR AID

Awarded by the Office of Admission

Net Price Calculator