IGNITE YOUR FUTURE.

Chemistry is the central science that encompasses the study of matter in all its forms.
This branch of science describes the fundamental structures, composition, and characteristics
of atoms and molecules, which leads to an understanding of chemical reactivity. This
chemical insight provides a broad foundation for all physical and biological sciences,
opening up a variety of academic and professional pursuits.

Studying chemistry requires a multidisciplinary approach that incorporates other areas
of study such as biology, computer science, mathematics and physics. The diverse interests
of chemists are reflected in the sub-disciplines of the field, such as analytical,
biological, inorganic, organic, and physical chemistry.

California State University, Bakersfield offers four tracks leading to a Bachelor
of Science (B.S.) in Chemistry and two tracks leading to a Bachelor of Science (B.S.) in
Biochemistry. Students at CSUB enjoy small class sizes, individual attention from
their professors, high-tech laboratory equipment, and the opportunity to conduct hands-on
research as undergraduates.

Please click on the links at left for more information about the Chemistry & Biochemistry
Department at CSUB.

MISSION STATEMENT

The mission of the Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry at California State University,
Bakersfield is to educate graduates who are prepared to be successful in a career
path in chemistry or biochemistry, have the ability to learn on their own, can be
an effective team member in a diverse environment, have scientific integrity, and
are effective at communicating chemistry to professional and lay audiences.

To complete this mission, the department offers a challenging, integrative, and supportive
learning environment that focuses on problem solving, where students collaborate in
small, diverse groups, are engaged in undergraduate research with faculty and in the
classroom, and are provided with service learning opportunities that engage the community.

CONTACT US

DEPARTMENT OF CHEMISTRY & BIOCHEMISTRY:

California State University, Bakersfield
9001 Stockdale Highway #62
Bakersfield, CA 93311-1022
(661) 654-2030
|
Email:
chemistry@csub.edu
CSUB:  Science II Building -
Maps