WHAT IS CLASSICS?

Classics in the broad sense is the interdisciplinary study of all aspects of the life and culture of ancient Greece and Rome and their Mediterranean context. Classics courses are offered in a wide variety of fields: art history, history, language (Greek and Latin), literature, mythology, philosophy, political science, and religious studies. Most courses are open to any interested student and have no prerequisites.

The Department of Classics at Santa Clara University encourages students to explore the Greco-Roman world not merely because of its “traditional place” in a liberal education nor for its antiquarian appeal. Rather, we believe that these ancient cultures articulated a unique vision of the human condition which remains viable today. Those ancient Greeks and Romans are alive and well, having defined a series of values that remain fundamental to modern American society. The study of ancient Greece and Rome thus also provides us with a foil for the serious reevaluation of the world we live in.

The study of Classics requires the sharpening of language and writing skills, increases vocabulary, provides the tools for and practice at critical reasoning, opens up cross-disciplinary perspectives, and offers a comfortable environment for learning to ask uncomfortable questions. Santa Clara students who major and minor in Classics go on to careers in law, medicine, education, and business of virtually every kind.

ABOUT OUR PROGRAM

Classics is the study of all aspects of the life and culture of ancient Greece and Rome in their Mediterranean context and their enduring relevance to our lives. The Department of Classics offers all levels of ancient Greek and Latin as well as courses that explore the origins of Western literature, history, art, mythology, philosophy, religion, ethics, government, science, architecture, engineering, city planning, and so forth.. Most courses in the department require no knowledge of an ancient language and are open to any interested student. Latin or Greek may be taken to satisfy the second language requirement. Because of the multidisciplinary nature of the field, classics provides an ideal liberal arts curriculum that is an excellent background for careers in many areas.

Students majoring or minoring in classics may pursue one of three different tracks: classical languages and literatures, classical studies, or ancient studies. Students who want to major and minor in classics must do so in different tracks.

LANGUAGE PLACEMENT

For questions about enrolling in Latin or Greek, please contact Professor
Daniel Turkeltaub
.

IN THEIR OWN WORDS

—ELIZABETH NEYBERT '21

IN THEIR OWN WORDS

—ABBY NAIRN '21

IN THEIR OWN WORDS

—ANA HOSHOVSKY '19

IN THEIR OWN WORDS

—YE CHIT KO '19

IN THEIR OWN WORDS

"To me, majoring in Classics has been much more than the curriculum. Over the past four years, I have made lasting friendships "nerding out" over rhetorical devices, racy word choice, and fascinating historical context. The small class sizes gave me the opportunity to learn not only from my professors but also from my peers. My Classics major has rewarded me with the ability to effectively communicate, analyze with precision, and the freedom to follow my passions."

—Elizabeth Neybert '21

FACULTY & STAFF

• Teaching Professor Lissa Crofton-Sleigh Crofton-Sleigh teaches both Greek and Latin, Classical Myth, and Literature in Translation.
Crofton-Sleigh teaches both Greek and Latin, Classical Myth, and Literature in Translation.

• Academic Department Manager Julia Kovatch 408-554-5248 | O'Connor Hall
408-554-5248 | O'Connor Hall

BEYOND THE CLASSROOM

Study Abroad

Student Awards

Student Research

Eta Sigma Phi

NEWS & EVENTS

• Classics and Courage: Katerina Gill's Path to Purpose Katerina Gill ’25 traded equations for ancient texts. In the process, she found her voice—and her future in law.
Katerina Gill ’25
traded equations for ancient texts. In the process, she found her voice—and her future in law.

• Lillian Henderson Double major in Classical Studies and Political Science, with minors in International Business and French and Francophone Studies
Double major in Classical Studies and Political Science, with minors in International Business and French and Francophone Studies

LIFE AFTER SCU

A double major in Economics and Philosophy and a minor in Classics, Johana currently is the Program Manager of Fellowships and Internships for the Markkula Center for Applied Ethics within SCU!

The department actually played a surprising role in how our lives turned out. Paul and I met because he was giving a speech on Plato’s
Symposium
, and somehow that turned into a nineteen-year conversation we never stopped having.

Since graduating from Santa Clara, Madison completed two master’s degrees at Loyola University Chicago, and is currently a Ph.D. candidate in History at the University of Memphis.

After graduating with a History major and Classics minor, Julie currently works for Caltech / NASA in the Jet Propulsion Lab.