GET A PULSE ON YOUR FUTURE

CSU Bakersfield can turn your dreams into reality by providing a high-quality education
to prepare you for the career you’ve always imagined.

CSUB Nursing Programs Recognized Among Best in State

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARINGS

PROPOSED CHANGE TO CSUB NURSING ADMISSION CRITERIA

The Department of Nursing at CSU Bakersfield is proposing a change in our admission
criteria that will grant LVN applicants advance placement/credit for prior learning
for the Traditional BSN program. LVN applicants will complete the Traditional BSN
application process but will be allowed to take a credit by challenge examination
for NURS 2120, NURS 2121, and NURS 2111. This change will take effect Fall 2027. To
comply with California Education Code 89030.5, a series of three public hearings will
be held (via Zoom) to solicit public comment. In addition, written comments may be
submitted via email to:
dwilson4@csub.edu.

The dates for the hearings are:

• March 17, 2026 12:00 pm-12:30 PM https://csub.zoom.us/j/89814322888 No Public Comments Recieved
• No Public Comments Recieved
• March 20, 2026 3:00 pm-3:30 PM https://csub.zoom.us/j/82405984805 No Public Comments Recieved
• No Public Comments Recieved
• March 27, 2026 10:00 am-10:30 AM https://csub.zoom.us/j/85246490529 No Public Comments Recieved
• No Public Comments Recieved

UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMS

GRADUATE PROGRAMS

MISSION, VISION AND VALUES

DEPARTMENT OF NURSING

Mission Statement
The Department of Nursing provides nursing education to undergraduate and graduate
students seeking entry into professional nursing or advanced education. The faculty
provides a collaborative, inclusive, and interactive learning environment committed
to excellence in teaching, scholarship, service, and practice.  The Department of
Nursing accomplishes the mission through collaboration with the communities of interest.

The Department of Nursing fosters an environment that encourages lifelong learning
and advancement within the profession. Graduates will have the acquired knowledge,
skills, attitudes, and values essential to the practice of professional nursing. As
professional nurses, our graduates will engage in evidence-based practice in an interprofessional
healthcare environment. In recognition of the health needs of a multicultural society,
professional nurses who are graduates of CSUB will address healthcare issues and needs
of their community.

Vision Statement
The CSUB Department of Nursing pursues innovative ways to advance nursing practice
and address the growing complexities associated with creating a healthier population
in California’s Central Valley.

Values Statement
The Department’s values align with those of the university, including academic excellence,
freedom of inquiry and statement, global awareness and cultural sensitivity, diversity,
honesty and fairness, democratic governance, community engagement, and personal responsibility.
The DON embraces professionalism and a respect for the inherent ethical values of
altruism, autonomy, human dignity, integrity, and social justice as fundamental to
the discipline of nursing.

ACCREDITATION

DONATE TODAY