MATHEMATICS AND STATISTICS DEPARTMENT

Abstract Algebra with Professor Shahriar Shahriari

Professor Edray Goins, from left, Sonoma State University Associate Professor of Mathematics and Statistics Omayra Ortega ’01 and Tesfa Asmara ’24 at the 2025 Joint Mathematics Meetings in Seattle.

ID1 seminar with Professor Vin de Silva

Students in the Math Student Commons

Office Hours with Professor Ami Radunskaya

Mathematics and statistics are tools for understanding the world, and our large department offers classes in all the mathematical sciences.

The mathematics and statistics curriculum at Pomona College offers classes suited for students interested in studying any of a broad range of mathematical fields.

In addition to serving mathematics and statistics students, the curriculum is as well-suited to the student who wants a liberal arts introduction to mathematical thought as it is to the social or natural scientist who needs technical expertise in mathematical or statistical methods.

Our department’s philosophy is that mathematics and statistics are for everyone, and as such we have developed programs including Learning Communities, the Pomona Scholars of Math Program and the 1-2-1 math summer bridge program.

Math majors can choose one of four tracks:

• The general mathematics track develops a broad understanding of all the mathematical sciences and is particularly appropriate for those planning to be high school math teachers.
• The pure mathematics track is especially appropriate for students who want to understand mathematics on its own terms. It is useful for students planning graduate study in pure mathematics.
• The applied mathematics track helps students develop an individualized curriculum in mathematics that is motivated by and helpful to other fields of inquiry, such as economics, biology or other sciences. This track is appropriate as preparation for employment in industry or graduate study in applied mathematics.
• The statistics track provides a background in both theory of and practice with data analysis, appropriate for both employment and graduate study in statistics.
Different sections of the same course may vary from one another as each faculty member is given flexibility in choosing what to cover, what text to use, and what to emphasize, leading to a myriad of exciting and inspiring courses.

The department promotes a collaborative, community atmosphere by offering evening mentor sessions for each of the lower and transition courses, training upper division students as mentors to facilitate collaboration, a weekly math lunch, and department retreats to a cabin in the local mountains.