Admissions – Deep Springs College
Program
Mission
The Academics Pillar
Academics at Deep Springs
Curriculum Structure
Faculty
Academic Calendar
Course Catalog (2020-2025)
The Labor Pillar
The Labor Program
Farm & Ranch
Staff
The Self-Governance Pillar
Self-Governance
Ground Rules
Trustees & Accreditation
Facilities & Support
History
Apply Now
Admissions Homepage
President’s Letter to Potential Applicants
Deadlines, Eligibility, & Other Information
Admissions FAQ
Apply
Student Life
A Day at Deep Springs
Testimonials
After Deep Springs
Employment
Employment Overview
Employment FAQ
Living at Deep Springs
Academic Job Openings
Staff Job Openings
Alumni
Transcript Requests
Alumni Directory
In Memoriam
Contribute
Support Deep Springs
Donate Now
Account
More
College News
Publications & Media
Deep Springs Store
Historical Photo Archive
Contact
Menu
Menu
Admissions
There is no single type of student that we look for, nor any single criterion that we use in making decisions. Instead, we try to get as complete a view as possible of each applicant before deciding if they are a good “fit” for Deep Springs and if Deep Springs is a good “fit” for them. We can promise you that we will spend much more time reading and discussing your application than virtually any other college will.
Competitive applicants should be able to demonstrate curiosity, an ability to reflect upon themselves, a strong work ethic, and clear communication skills. Applicants should also be seriously interested in pursuing a life of service to humanity after Deep Springs, and they should have a sense of how the college would help them achieve this goal.
We welcome applications from all qualified students, regardless of gender, race, citizenship, or nationality. This includes present and potential DACA (Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals) recipients.
Admissions deadlines are
here
.
Application Process
The application process begins in early fall. For the first part of the application, we will ask you to write several essays, describe your extra-academic interests and activities, and submit your grades. Test scores are not required, but applicants may still submit them. (The Deep Springs CEEB/SAT/AP/TOEFL code is 4281; the ACT code is 0252). We require unofficial academic transcripts from any secondary schools, colleges, and universities you have attended.
Recent prompts for essays:
Tell us about yourself.
Tell us about an idea that interests you that you have been thinking about outside of class.
Why Deep Springs?
What are the strengths and weaknesses of your upbringing? How have they shaped and limited who you are now? How have they influenced what you want to do in the future?
What are thinking and judgment for?
We are interested in how you think. Honest essays are the best ones.
You will find out in December if you have made it to the second round.
All students traveling to campus for their interviews will need to have a COVID vaccination. If you are not vaccinated or do not feel comfortable traveling at this time, virtual interviews are available.
The second round consists of more essay writing, submission of letters of recommendation and official transcripts, and a visit to the college. Over 3-4 days, you will be expected to labor with students, listen in on classes and have an interview. Interviews are conducted by the Applications Committee—a group of students, staff, and faculty who are responsible for choosing the next incoming class. The visit helps us get to know you better, and allows you to ensure that Deep Springs is the right place for you.
Decisions are released in April and students who are admitted begin class at the beginning of July. This is because, as we are a working ranch, some students are around at all times and classes run through the summer.
Before you apply, we highly recommend reading the
President’s Letter to Potential Applicants
.
Contact
Board of Trustees & Accreditation
Academic Calendar
Instagram
Visitation Policy
Deep Springs College
HC72 Box 45001
Dyer, NV 89010
Website design by the
Deep Springs Communication Committee
.
Scroll to top
Scroll to top
Scroll to top