Welcome to the Sonoma State University Department of Art, an inclusive and supportive community of students, staff, and faculty. Together, we work to create opportunities for experimentation, collaboration, cooperation, expression, and personal growth.
Our department offers an interdisciplinary arts education with strong foundations in Art Theory, Art History, technical skills, and professional development. Our facilities include two galleries, a foundry, metal shop, wood shop, dark room, lithography studio, individual studio spaces and a community garden, and we invite students of all backgrounds, religious identification, sexual identity, race, and ethnicity, to join us.

We are working actively to create a diverse, equitable, and inclusive community for learning and creation to which each individual can bring their whole self. We recognize that diversity, equity, and inclusion are not only morally necessary, but benefit everyone.

Wach the video below to hear what some of our current students are saying about their experiences in the program.

WHAT ARE WE DOING SPECIFICALLY?

• We're changing the curriculum. Because representation of diverse artists and cultures isn't enough, art department courses explicitly address issues of gender, race and racism, LGBTQ issues, nationalism, disability, and eco art history in visual culture, art production, and art history.
• We commit to hiring an ever more diverse faculty
• We promise to address racism, sexism, homophobia, and other forms of discrimination in our community directly and promptly. Violations of the Seawolf Commitment and Code of Conduct including microaggressions will be handled seriously.
We know that ending discrimination and getting rid of old power structures will take time and require continuous reassessment and action. It will take time to embrace the full capaciousness of art and visual culture. We are committed to the project.

ANNOUNCEMENTS

Joe Ferriso's solo exhibition at the Eleanor Harwood Gallery opens March 14th. Read more about it
here
.

Art studio student Joanna Wheeldin brings her creative writing to the African American Writers Event in Santa Rosa.

Join us on Thursdays from Noon - 12:50 for our visiting artist lecture series!

It's the Art Program's spring semester brush sale on January 28th from Noon - 1! Come get your brushes at deep discounts. Thank you to Rileystreet Art Supply for partnering with us.

Sena Clara Creston
has a photograph included in the upcoming exhibition
Knock, Knock: The Art of Wit and Whimsy
at the UNCLE Credit Union Art Gallery at the Bankhead Theater. The exhibition is on view from October 23, 2025 - January 4, 2026 with an opening reception on Saturday, October 25th from 1:00- 3:00.

This lighthearted & joyful exhibition celebrates the playful side of creativity, showcasing artwork that elicits laughter, sparks delight, & nudges the imagination in unexpected directions. From visual puns & satirical commentary to reimagined board games & comic-inspired illustrations, each piece reveals how art can be both clever & carefree.

Art studio faculty
Nate Haenlein
,
Sena Clara Creston
,
Alex Hanson
and
Joe Ferriso
are all in an upcoming show at the
120710 gallery
in Berkeley.  The exhibition
Teaching Practice
brings together the work of artist-professors from Bay Area colleges.
Teaching
Practice
is on view from September 6th through September 27th with an opening reception on the 6th from 4 p.m. -  8 p.m.

BFA students Ellie Bertling and Charlotte Ruiz participated in The Recology Artstart Student Hub
(TRASH)
summer residency. Their art will be displayed in the
Reclaim, Repurpose, Reimagine
show opening in the University Art Gallery on September 4th.

Photo professor
Sena Clara Creston's
book
Fortitude
(Washington Street Press, 2025) is being launched at the Westbeth Arts Complex in New York on July 15th.

Sena Clara Creston'
s photography will be part of a solo exhibition titled
Fortitude
at the
DragonFLY Gallery
in Chicago. The exhibition is open August 8th through August 31st with an opening reception on August 8th from 6 pm - 9 pm.

Joe Ferriso
has a solo exhibition on view May 10th through June 14th at Pacific Saw Works.