ADMISSIONS

CCA will wind down its current operations and will close by the end of the 2026-2027 academic year. Vanderbilt will then become the owner of the campus and will establish undergraduate and graduate programming, including art and design programs, at the campus.
Read the full announcement
.

We understand you may have many questions and have included detailed Q&As below for spring/summer/fall 2026 applicants and spring 2026 admits. For other questions not addressed here, please email
[email protected]
.

TUITION & FEES

Preparing for college includes planning and budgeting for tuition, fees, books, transportation, housing, and more

THE VALUE OF A CCA EDUCATION

Our graduates become creative leaders in their fields who make powerful contributions to society. So when they’re students, we offer many financial aid resources, including merit and institutional scholarships, and staff support to help maximize every aid opportunity.
View the 2026–2027 estimated total cost of attendance
.

NET PRICE CALCULATOR

The net price calculator estimates what you can expect to pay for college with financial aid. By answering a few simple questions, you can get an estimate based on your eligibility for federal and state grants, as well as institutional merit and need-based aid at CCA. These calculations are based on CCA’s current financial aid offer estimates and the cost of attendance. Select your enrollment status below to get an estimate.

Note: Updated calculators coming soon.

• First-Year students: Estimate your financial aid options
• Transfer students: Calculate average tuition coverage
While every effort is made to ensure the accuracy of CCA’s net price calculators, please know the result is an estimate only; it does not represent a final determination or actual offer of financial assistance.

HOUSING & DINING

Live where you learn in a secure, below-market-rate residential campus community of thinkers and creators

Founders Hall

A COMMUNITY OF ARTIST-CITIZENS

Our residence halls offer you a chance to live and grow within a community of artist-citizens at the center of the Bay Area’s best art and design neighborhoods. CCA’s Housing, Dining, and Residential Education's new residence halls and dining facility foster student connections through open design and proximity to campus. Our mission is to provide an inclusive, welcoming living environment for all types of students.

FINANCIAL AID

With exciting internship opportunities, industry connections, and career development support, attending CCA is an investment in your future

OVER 89% OF STUDENTS RECEIVE SUPPORT

Every year, CCA awards more than $30.4 million in college-funded scholarships and over $51.9 million in combined scholarships, grants, loans, and work-study to help you achieve your academic goals. To cover additional expenses, we can also help you find other funding, such as work-study, internships, and other resources.

PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT

CCA students are prepared with the fundamentals to pursue lifelong career success

CAREER SERVICES FOR WHAT’S NEXT

From mock interviews to resume prep to training, our comprehensive
career service offerings
help create a sustainable career pathway from first year forward.

JOB AND INTERNSHIP BOARD

The CCA Handshake job board aggregates listings from more than 12,000 employers. Students and alumni can use the site to apply for opportunities, RSVP to events, and connect to career-movers and makers.

CAREER EVENTS AND WORKSHOPS

Attend professional meetups, training, and networking opportunities the Professional Engagement and External Partnerships team hosts all year long. Students and alumni are always welcome.
Register for all programs and events through Handshake
.