FINANCIAL AID

WELCOME TO OTIS COLLEGE FINANCIAL AID

You Belong at Otis. We Can Help You Get Here.

Through scholarships, grants, and advising support, Otis College Office of Financial
Aid helps make a nationally recognized art and design education accessible for eligible
students. Based on recent data, 98% of all undergraduate Otis College students are
receiving scholarships and financial aid, so the chances are good that you’re eligible
too. That’s why it’s important to apply for aid using the Free Application for Federal
Student Aid (FAFSA) or the California Dream Act Application (CADAA).
In addition to exploring financial aid opportunities, prospective students should
also visit our
One Stop
and
Student Accounts
sections. These resources provide essential information on managing tuition payments,
understanding billing processes, and accessing various student services. The One Stop
page offers comprehensive support for academic records, registration, and financial
services, ensuring a seamless and supportive experience throughout your educational
journey at Otis College. By utilizing these tools, you can navigate your academic
and financial responsibilities with confidence and ease.

OUR MISSION

The Office of Financial Aid team is dedicated to assisting current and prospective
students make their Otis education possible by helping them explore scholarships,
federal and state grants, and other aid sources to assist with their educational costs.

WE INVEST IN YOUR FUTURE

OTIS COLLEGE: ONE OF THE NATION’S BEST FOR CAREER OUTCOMES

Otis is one of only three art and design colleges in the U.S. to be designated an
Opportunity College for Higher Earnings and Higher Access by the Carnegie Foundation
and American Council on Education. Otis is in the top 16% of all U.S. colleges to
receive this designation and its graduates achieve higher earnings and upward mobility.

IT ALL STARTS WITH THE FAFSA

The
2026-27
FAFSA Form is available. To begin, log in to
studentaid.gov
to complete your application. All new and returning students are encouraged to complete
the FAFSA as early as possible each year
and no later than March 1
to ensure consideration for all types of aid, including grants and scholarships.

GET STARTED:

• Step 1: All students (and one parent for Dependent students) must obtain an FSA ID to sign their FAFSA electronically.
• Step 2: Complete the new FAFSA form by the priority funding deadline. Be sure to add Otis’s school code: 001251.
• Step 3: The Financial Aid Office will receive your FAFSA information electronically. Continue
 to monitor your email for your award notification, updates, and requests for additional
 information.
Learn More About FAFSA

FINANCIAL AID RESOURCES

Explore Office of Financial Aid' online tools and other resources developed to help
you prepare and pay for an Otis education.

Learn More

EDUCATION YOU CAN AFFORD

We want to make sure you understand exactly what you will be paying for as you work
toward your degree at Otis College. So we've broken down those costs simply and transparently
to help you budget your expenses.

Net Price Calculator

MEET THE FINANCIAL AID TEAM

Have questions or need assistance? Our Financial Aid and One Stop team is here to
help! Contact us by phone at
310-665-6999
or email
onestop@otis.edu
for support.

Schedule an Appointment

Michaela Matsumoto
(she/her)
Executive Director, Financial and One Stop

Ardie Elgersma (she/her)
Director, Financial Aid Compliance

Justin Thai (He/Him)
Assistant Director, One Stop

Evelyn Garcia (she/her)
Senior Financial Aid Counselor

Chelsea Castañeda Ea (she/they)
Financial Aid Operations Specialist

Mai Bui (he/him)
Financial Aid Counselor

FINANCIAL AID INFO SESSIONS

We know how important understanding financial aid is to your overall Otis experience.
Join us for an information session where we'll explain important concepts, talk about
next steps, and answer any questions you have about how financial aid works.

Register Now

EXPLORE TYPES OF AID

Loans

Loan money is given to you now, but must be repaid later.

Work Study

Work study programs allow you to work on-campus to help pay for ​​school.​

Scholarships

These are awarded based on academic achievement.

Grants

A grant is provided by the federal government or state as a monetary gift.

APPLY FOR FINANCIAL AID

This section will help clarify and explain the financial aid application process for
new students and their parents applying for financial aid.

New students:
We recommend you apply for financial aid by submitting the FAFSA as early as possible
and no later than March 2 for fall and November 1 for spring even though financial
aid packages will not be offered until you are officially admitted to Otis College
of Art and Design.

Please make sure you list your accurate Social Security Number on both your admissions
application and the FAFSA application. Not doing so may result in delays.

Continuing students:
Submit the FAFSA by March 2 to be considered for Cal Grants. After this date, Cal
Grants may not be available. The continuing student scholarship application is typically
available in early spring and requires a FAFSA submission.

Renewal Process:
Financial aid is not automatically renewed. Students must submit the FAFSA each year.

International Students:
Applying to the college is all you need to do. You will be automatically considered
for merit scholarships.

US Citizens/Permanent Residents should submit the
Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA)
. Students need to enter the Otis College code: 001251. When completing your
FAFSA online
, you are encouraged to use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool.

California residents also have the option of submitting the California Dream Act Application.
To apply for the California Dream Act visit
www.caldreamact.org
.

After the FAFSA is submitted, Otis College will electronically receive your FAFSA
record. Students and applicants will be notified regarding any additional paperwork
if required.  All missing documents will be listed on the student’s Dashboard under
“Financial Aid Requirements” at
portal.otis.edu
.

Once all required documentation is received, the Office of Financial Aid will offer
you financial aid based on your eligibility. An offer letter providing guidance for
accepting, reducing, or declining offered awards will be released to you on the applicant
portal.

If you are a first-time Otis College  loan borrower, you will be required to complete
a
Master Promissory Note
and an
Entrance Counseling
at
www.studentaid.gov
prior to receiving your first federal loan disbursement.

If your file is selected for verification, you may be required to submit:

IRS Tax Return Transcript (and your spouse's, if married). To request an IRS Transcript,
visit the IRS website
, call 1-800-829-1040, or
visit a local IRS office
in person.

There are eligibility requirements that apply to federal and state financial aid programs
offered at Otis College:

Citizenship:
Students must be one of the following:

• U.S. citizen or national
• U.S. permanent resident
• Citizen of certain Pacific Islands (the Freely Associated States)
• Other eligible non-citizen
Enrollment:
Students must be enrolled full time (BFA ≥ 12 units, MFA ≥ 9 units) for maximum awards:
Students must be enrolled at least half time to be eligible for federal student loans
((BFA ≥ 6 units, MFA ≥ 4 units). Otis scholarships require full time enrollment (12
units).

Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP):
Students are required to maintain Satisfactory Academic Progress as outlined in the
Student Handbook
. SAP is evaluated at the end of each academic year. If one or all SAP standards are
not met, the student is disqualified from receiving federal financial aid. To regain
eligibility to receive financial aid, the student has to appeal in writing by submitting
the Appeal Form listed on the my.otis.edu. The Otis College SAP standards, measurements,
warning, suspension and appeal information are
available for review here
.

Your FSA ID is your username and password that is used to log in to certain U.S. Department
of Education (ED) websites including the FAFSA. Your FSA ID is used to sign legally
binding documents electronically. Go to
https://studentaid.gov/fsa-id/create-account/launch
to register for your FSA ID. Watch the
How to Create an FSA ID video tutorial
created by the Department of Education to assist you with the FSA ID process.

To follow up on the status of your submitted FAFSA, access
https://studentaid.gov/h/apply-for-aid/fafsa
and click on "check my submitted FAFSA." You can view your processed data, make corrections,
and request a duplicate Student Aid Report. Contact the Otis College Financial Aid
Office prior to making any corrections.

FINANCIAL AID FAQ

Find answers to the most commonly asked questions about financial aid at Otis College.

Read the FAQs

MEET WITH US

Our full-time staff of trained professionals is available to assist you with your
financial aid questions.

Schedule an Appointment

CONTACT US

We're here to help! Have questions about applying for student loans, grants, and scholarships?
Contact our Office of Financial Aid team to get your questions answered.

Phone: 310-665–6999
Fax: 310-665–6884

Send Email

Schedule an Appointment

RELATED LINKS

• Cost of Attendance
• Financial Calculator
• Types of Aid
• Student Accounts

REQUEST INFORMATION