2023-2024 UNIVERSITY CATALOG

WELCOME TO CAL STATE FULLERTON’S 2023-2024 CATALOG …

… a comprehensive source for current information on academic programs, policies, degree requirements, procedures and course offerings; plus other features to assist you, including advanced search options, user-friendly navigation and a personal portfolio to store favorite programs and courses. If you are new to our online catalog and would like to learn more, click the
at the top right of any page.

WHAT’S NEW …

STUDENT PHOTOS FEATURED THROUGHOUT THE CATALOG

Images featured throughout the catalog were submitted by Cal State Fullerton students during a photo contest aimed at capturing the university in all its diverse aspects of life as a Titan. Finalists were selected by a student/faculty/staff committee representing the
Daily Titan
, Strategic Communications, athletics, College of Communications and Academic Programs.

3 WAYS TO SEARCH THE CATALOG

• Use the Catalog Search box at the top left of the page: Enter a keyword in the box and click

• Click Advanced Search at the top left of the page: Narrow your search by checking: •  Courses •  Programs •  Hierarchy items •  Other content Then type a keyword and click Search

• Click on a link in the left navigation menu

CREATE YOUR OWN PORTFOLIO

You may add items to your own personal Portfolio as you browse through the online catalogs. The Portfolio feature will retain a list of courses, programs, pages, divisions and saved searches that you find interesting and wish to save for future visits to the online Cal State Fullerton catalogs.

To add items, click the
icon, located at the top right of the page. This will open a new popup window that displays all items currently in your Portfolio.

You may remove items from your Portfolio by selecting the check boxes next to them and clicking the Remove button.

UNIVERSITY ADDRESS

When corresponding with the university, write to the specific office, college or department.

California State University, Fullerton
P.O. Box 6850
Fullerton, CA 92834-6850
Telephone information 657-278-2011