PSYCHOLOGY

EXPLORE THE BREADTH OF PSYCHOLOGY AT MOUNT SAINT MARY’S UNIVERSITY

At Mount Saint Mary’s University, Los Angeles, the psychology program is designed to stand out. Unlike many programs that have students focus on just three theoretical areas of psychology, ours requires you to dive into all five main areas — social, cognitive, mental and physical health, developmental and biological — to ensure you graduate with a comprehensive and dynamic understanding of human behavior. You’ll still have the opportunity to specialize in the area of psychology you’re most passionate about, taking upper-division electives that will take your knowledge to the next level.

Following the American Psychological Association’s recommendations for undergraduate programs, our curriculum encompasses the breadth and depth of psychology with hands-on experience through practicums in Los Angeles communities and research lab opportunities. Whether you’re looking to impact your community right away or continue your studies in graduate school, this program equips you with the skills, knowledge and experiences to succeed.

IT WILL ALWAYS HAVE A SPECIAL PLACE IN MY HEART.

CAREER OPPORTUNITIES AND PROGRAM OUTCOMES FOR PSYCHOLOGY GRADUATES

At Mount Saint Mary’s University, our mission is to develop graduates who will use their knowledge of psychology to improve the community around them. Many of our undergraduate psychology students are passionate about working directly with patients and becoming therapists, social workers, psychologists and psychiatrists, which sets our students apart compared to the national average. These career paths require graduate school, and about 70% of psychology students go to graduate school within five years of leaving Mount Saint Mary’s. Our alumni have gone on to attend clinical and research graduate school programs at UCLA, Pepperdine, USC, Claremont Graduate University, Mount Saint Mary’s and more.

Other graduates work in related mental and physical health fields or attend other health-related programs such as medical school programs, physician assistant programs, dental programs, nursing programs and physical, speech and occupational therapy programs.

EARN A BA OR GET A MINOR IN PSYCHOLOGY

Whether you choose to major or minor, psychology courses at the Mount provide a comprehensive and flexible approach to understanding human behavior and equip you with the knowledge and skills to make a difference in any field.

BA IN PSYCHOLOGY

The Bachelor of Arts in Psychology degree invites you to explore the fascinating world of human behavior and mental processes. Through a blend of scientific methods, theoretical approaches and real-world applications, you’ll uncover the “why” behind human actions while gaining practical skills to make a difference. Rooted in the Mount’s mission and liberal arts tradition, our program empowers you with innovative, evidence-based learning designed to shape you into a socially responsible, global leader ready to impact the world.

MINOR IN PSYCHOLOGY

A minor in psychology offers students the flexibility to explore the connections between psychological principles and everyday life. Deepen your understanding of human behavior and mental processes with this minor and integrate insights from psychology into your major field of study and beyond.

ENCOURAGING INNOVATIVE AND EVIDENCE-BASED THINKING

With exposure to the basic and applied fields of psychology, Mount Saint Mary’s University students develop, practice and engage in scientific inquiry and critical thinking while ethically solving complex social problems.

The Mount offers at least one special topics psychology class a semester. Previous topics include “Adulting” — anything you would actually need to know as an adult but might not have learned from your family or in a formal educational setting — and “Taylor Swift’s Version” — a special topic social psychology class that goes through all of the singer’s eras.

Explore the powerful immigration stories and journeys of people from around the world while debunking common myths about immigration. With the primary focus on immigrants living in the U.S., you’ll dive into the challenges people face, from adjusting to new cultures to navigating immigration laws, and discover how these experiences shape lives and communities.

Discover how children learn and grow through play across different cultures and communities. You’ll explore playful learning beyond the classroom, study the role of adults and even design products and spaces that foster creativity and development. This class is an exciting application of psychology in the real world, done in a cross-programmatic way to encompass multiple theoretical viewpoints across two programs.

At Mount Saint Mary’s psychology program, you’ll be able to have a much wider variety of experiences that are built into your degree. You will also typically have much smaller class sizes than you would in any of the local public institutions in the LA area.

ENHANCE YOUR LEARNING WITH PRACTICAL PSYCHOLOGY EXPERIENCES

The psychology program offers two practice categories for students to get involved outside the classroom and gain indispensable hands-on experience: a practicum and a research lab experience. Either will qualify for the practice requirement, but students can take both if they want. Additionally, students can also get involved with the Mount’s psychology club!

• Practicum ﻿ During the practicum, students get a sense of what it’s actually like to do psychology in the real world, getting to observe therapeutical practices, engaging with children and understanding what developmental theory looks like in reality. Working directly with professionals, students not only gain invaluable experience but also make meaningful connections in the field.

PRACTICUM
﻿

During the practicum, students get a sense of what it’s actually like to do psychology in the real world, getting to observe therapeutical practices, engaging with children and understanding what developmental theory looks like in reality. Working directly with professionals, students not only gain invaluable experience but also make meaningful connections in the field.

• Research labs Mount Saint Mary’s University faculty lead cutting-edge research on diverse psychological topics such as parenting styles, language development, substance dependency, the gender wage gap and more. By participating, students gain experience in every aspect of professional psychology research, including designing studies, collecting data from human participants and analyzing results using modern statistical tools.

RESEARCH LABS

Mount Saint Mary’s University faculty lead cutting-edge research on diverse psychological topics such as parenting styles, language development, substance dependency, the gender wage gap and more. By participating, students gain experience in every aspect of professional psychology research, including designing studies, collecting data from human participants and analyzing results using modern statistical tools.

• Psychology club ﻿ This student-led club is all about fueling passion for psychology and showcasing its impact on society. The psychology club offers exciting research and volunteer opportunities, both on campus and in the community, giving students the chance to dive into the field firsthand.

PSYCHOLOGY CLUB
﻿

This student-led club is all about fueling passion for psychology and showcasing its impact on society. The psychology club offers exciting research and volunteer opportunities, both on campus and in the community, giving students the chance to dive into the field firsthand.