BEGIN YOUR SONOMA STATE JOURNEY

DISCOVER WHY SSU IS RIGHT FOR YOU

Welcome to Sonoma State University, where your dreams come to life. Located in the heart of Northern California, one hour north of San Francisco, Sonoma State offers breathtaking scenery and a vibrant community fueled by curiosity, innovation, and collaboration. Here, you’ll find the support and inspiration you need to turn your goals into reality. Whether you’re aiming to create, lead, or make an impact, Sonoma State is the perfect place to start your journey.

Come see how we can help turn your passion, grow your potential, and build a successful future career.

Explore SSU

Alumni Making an Impact Worldwide

of Students Received Financial Aid in ‘24–’25

Million Scholarships Awarded in ‘24–’25

Options Available to Match Your Passions

APPLY TO BEGIN YOUR JOURNEY

At Sonoma State, we go beyond academics — we foster mentorships, friendships, and lasting connections that help you graduate on time and prepared to lead in your field. Our faculty and staff are here to guide you in discovering your path, finding your purpose, and achieving your full potential. Your success is our top priority.

Apply

Check Application Status

PLAN YOUR VISIT

MEET LIVY & EDDY, YOUR VIRTUAL ASSISTANT RECRUITERS

Meet our AI-powered recruitment team, who are here to support your journey at Sonoma State University. Livy and Eddy can provide smart support, instant answers, and real guidance.

Livy’s here to guide you through the undergraduate application process with tips and answers to your questions.

CALL LIVY AT (707) 440-3726

Available via phone call and chat only, and cannot receive text messages currently.

Eddy’s here to guide you through the post-baccalaureate application process with tips and answers to your questions.

CALL EDDY AT (707) 986-0452

Available via phone call and chat only, and cannot receive text messages currently.

DISCOVER CAMPUS LIFE

See a vibrant calendar of events including student activities, career fairs, community events, and more!

Find your home away from home in our residential communities, designed to support academic success, connection, and personal growth.

Experience world-class performances at our premier concert hall and outdoor venue.

Get involved with a wide range of student-led clubs that reflect your interests and passions.

Build lifelong connections through our active and inclusive Fraternity & Sorority community.

Join or cheer on a variety of student-run sports clubs.

Find More Things To Do At SSU

PLAN YOUR VISIT

Experience Sonoma State in person! Located in Rohnert Park, in the heart of California’s wine country, our campus is just one hour north of San Francisco and 45 minutes from the Pacific Ocean.  It’s the perfect place to live, learn, and explore.

FIND YOUR WAY

• Campus Tour Registration
• Request Information
• Transportation
• Directions
• Maps
• Parking Permits