DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGICAL SCIENCES

ABOUT US

Geology is the science of the materials and processes that shape the world around
us. We in the Department of Geological Sciences at CSUB combine our understanding
of natural sciences and mathematics to solve the biggest Earth-system problems relevant
to Kern County, throughought the state of California, and beyond.

MISSION STATEMENT

The mission of the CSUB Department of Geological Sciences is to prepare our students
with the knowledge and skills necessary for diverse geoscience and environmental science
career opportunities. Geology faculty serve as active mentors and role models to provide
students with high quality educational and research experiences in the classroom,
field, and laboratory. Graduates of the program are critical thinkers, informed scientific
citizens, and lifelong learners. The Department also provides the campus and local
community with expertise to promote science literacy and to help solve problems essential
to the future development of the Central Valley and beyond.

Mailing Address
Department of Geological Sciences 66 SCI
California State University, Bakersfield
9001 Stockdale Highway
Bakersfield, CA 93311-1022
Office Location
Science II, Room 340
Map
Contact Information
Phone:
(661) 654-3027
Email:
geology@csub.edu

Mailing Address

Office Location

Contact Information

News
Mar 13-15 - Zzyzx Field Trip
Feb 19 - Dr. Crewdson Talks
Dec 24 - Dr. Cruz Publishes
Dec 15-19 - AGU Fall Meeting
CSUB Geology Takes Field Trip to Mojave Desert and Death Valley
Mar 13-15 - Zzyzx Field Trip
Dr. Crewdson Gives Talks for the Kern Astronomical Society and NSME Teacher-Scholar
Lecture Series
Feb 19 - Dr. Crewdson Talks
Dr. Cruz published work from her team of international scientists working on Pacific
Ocean chemistry
Dec 24 - Dr. Cruz Publishes
CSUB Geology students and professor attend the AGU 2025 Fall Meeting in New Orleans
Dec 15-19 - AGU Fall Meeting

NEWS

SUPPORT THE DEPARTMENT

Donations to the department help support a variety of activities, including student
scholarships, research equipment, and teaching materials. Donate today by clicking
the button below (remember to select
Geology Department
from the
I want to support
dropdown menu) or reaching out to the
department chair
!

On This Page

• About Us
• Department Information
• Recent News
• Support the Department!