UNDERGRADUATE ADMISSIONS

Are you ready to live your purpose?

Apply Now

We invite you to come explore our beautiful, 162-acre campus and experience what it
is like to be an undergraduate student at CBU.

Visit Campus

Transfer students, CBU has several helpful resources to better understand how your
units may transfer to CBU!

Find Out Now

IN THIS SECTION

FALL IN LOVE WITH CBU

At California Baptist University, education is multi-dimensional and extends beyond
the classroom. The quality academic choices offered can help you get a better understanding
of your life’s purpose, which you can explore in an environment of support that fosters
your mind and spirit, and gives you the opportunity to apply newly acquired skills.
Whether you are fresh out of high school or transferring from another college, CBU
is a launching pad of opportunity with resources to help you build your life and live
your purpose.

Undergraduate Admissions | 8432 Magnolia Avenue, Riverside, CA 92504 | (951) 343-4212

MAJORS AND MINORS

Pursue a path unique to you — your beliefs, your interests and your goals — through
CBU's array of majors, minors and online undergraduate programs.

Image highlight:
Radiologic Sciences, B.S.

HOW TO APPLY TO CBU

Congratulations on your decision to take the next step and apply for enrollment at
California Baptist University, one of the best Christian colleges and universities
in Southern California. The Spring and Fall 2026 applications are now open!

Start Application

STUDENT LIFE

Adjusting to college has its challenges, but CBU is here to ensure your college years
are some of the best of your life. CBU offers a myriad of events and clubs on campus
to help you make lasting friends and memories.

Explore Student Life

MAKING COLLEGE AFFORDABLE

Figuring out how to finance your college education is one of the most
important (and complicated) challenges – but you are not alone in this – CBU is here
to help!

Price Calculator

LEARN MORE ABOUT CBU

LOOKING FOR MORE INFORMATION?

Thank you for your interest in California Baptist University. We are looking forward
to helping you get the information you are looking for. Complete an inquiry form at
the link below and you will receive information via email and by phone.

Request Information

VISIT

If you are considering becoming a part of the CBU family, you should take some time
to get familiar with the campus. We have created a
virtual tour
just for you.

While we have designed the virtual tour to give you a comprehensive view into the
CBU campus experience, you really have to visit us for yourself to truly understand
why people love it here. Whichever you choose, we look forward to meeting you here
at CBU.

Visit CBU

SEE YOURSELF HERE

Apply Today

SEE YOURSELF AT MIDNIGHT MADNESS.

Cheer alongside hundreds of other CBU students in this high-energy event, which kicks
off basketball season. School spirit is raised with games and relays like the dunk
contest and 3-point shootout, and free food and prizes for the fans.

SEE YOURSELF IN THE LAB.

CBU has numerous labs on campus that are used for a variety of majors and courses.
Students have easy access to these labs, unlike at other, larger universities.

SEE YOURSELF DOING FIELDWORK.

Many majors, such as nursing, require internships and fieldwork to give you hands-on
experience in your field.

SEE YOURSELF JOINING CLUBS.

Make memories that will last by taking part in the many activities and clubs available
on campus, such as the Botany Club or the Chess Club.

SEE YOURSELF STUDYING WITH FRIENDS.

CBU’s campus has many spots where you can study, such as the library, dining rooms
and lounges. The sunny Southern California weather also allows you to study outdoors
comfortably year-round.

SEE YOURSELF IN THE CAMPUS GARDEN.

Students of all majors and interests can relax and be out in nature in CBU’s gardens,
which include lavender, sunflowers, tomatoes, lettuce and a citrus grove. Some science
classes also use the gardens for learning outside the classroom.

CONNECT WITH US

Follow us on Instagram for updates on important admission events, reminder of key
dates, and more importantly, a sneak peek at life as a CBU Lancer.

NEXT STEPS

Join our community. At CBU, you’ll be challenged to become an individual whose skills,
integrity, and sense of purpose glorify God and distinguish you in the world.