SHAPE THE FUTURE
OF DANCE

Pursue dance degrees that blend performance, choreography, and inquiry shaped by leading faculty and a thriving creative community.

General Questions
:
dance@uci.edu

Department Chair
:
Professor Kelli Sharp
ksharp@uci.edu

Department Manager
:
Sholeh Satari
ssatari@uci.edu

Department Analyst
:
Emma Andres
eaandres@uci.edu

UCI Arts Student Affairs and Academic Advising

Department of Dance
300 Mesa Road
Irvine, CA 92697-2775
(949) 824-7283

UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMS IN DANCE

In addition to technical training in the dance studio, the Department of Dance offers courses such as music for dance, critical issues, dance history, dance science, movement analysis, dance for camera, and digital media for performance. Creative opportunities bridge the studio and theoretical work through performance and choreography, creative applications of animation, motion capture, audio and video technologies, lecture demonstration, and critical, historical, ethnographic, and scientific writing.

IMPORTANT DATES - UNDERGRADUATES

UC application period
October 1 – December 2, 2025

Auditions for fall 2026
Saturday, January 24, 2026 or Saturday, February 7, 2026

BACHELOR OF ARTS (B.A.) IN DANCE

The Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) is designed for those who wish to obtain a broad undergraduate background as preparation for careers or graduate work and related fields. It offers students a dance education that stresses performance and choreography, and, at the same time, intellectual depth and scope. In addition to the core, 10 units of elective Dance courses are required. The remaining elective units required for graduation may be chosen from Dance or other disciplines in relation to a student’s individual interest. While the program of study in Dance stresses technical proficiency and academic understanding in dance, the B.A. degree program also enables students to pursue elective subjects in their special areas of interest in other academic disciplines.

In addition to meeting the general requirements for admission to UCI, applicants must demonstrate technical and creative promise. The Department holds annual entrance auditions for potential freshmen and transfer students during the winter quarter prior to the fall quarter when entrance is anticipated. First-year students wishing to major in Dance must be at technique level II in at least one of the three major genres (ballet, modern, jazz).

Placement auditions for admitted students are held during Welcome Week to determine levels of technical ability for placement in courses. It is suggested that transfer students wishing to pursue a B.A. in Dance complete, in addition to their general education requirements, one course in choreography, two courses in dance technique, and one course in music for dancers prior to transfer to UCI.

Transfer students wishing to pursue the B.F.A. must declare their intention in writing at the time of their entrance audition and demonstrate technique and/or choreography levels appropriate to their year. It is suggested that transfer students complete, in addition to their general education requirements, one course in choreography, two courses in dance technique, one course in music for dancers, and one course in dance performance prior to transfer to UCI.

Please see the
UCI Catalogue
for requirements for the B.A. in Dance

Learn more about the B.A. in Dance

BACHELOR OF FINE ARTS (B.F.A.) IN DANCE

The Bachelor of Fine Arts (B.F.A.) program with specializations in Performance and Choreography, is designed for students who wish to prepare intensively for careers in those areas. The courses required in addition to the core are primarily in Dance. The B.F.A. program allows for a few free electives in other areas. Admission to the B.F.A. program with a specialization in Choreography is by faculty approval only.

The B.F.A. program with a specialization in Performance does not require additional faculty approval beyond the required audition for admission to the Dance major; students should declare their intention to pursue this specialization during spring quarter of their sophomore year.

In addition to meeting the general requirements for admission to UCI, applicants must demonstrate technical and creative promise. The Department holds annual entrance auditions for potential freshmen and transfer students during the winter quarter prior to the fall quarter when entrance is anticipated. First-year students wishing to major in Dance must be at technique level II in at least one of the three major genres (ballet, modern, jazz).

Placement auditions for admitted students are held during Welcome Week to determine levels of technical ability for placement in courses. It is suggested that transfer students wishing to pursue a B.F.A. in Dance complete, in addition to their general education requirements, one course in choreography, two courses in dance technique, and one course in music for dancers prior to transfer to UCI.

Transfer students wishing to pursue the B.F.A. must declare their intention in writing at the time of their entrance audition and demonstrate technique and/or choreography levels appropriate to their year. It is suggested that transfer students complete, in addition to their general education requirements, one course in choreography, two courses in dance technique, one course in music for dancers, and one course in dance performance prior to transfer to UCI.

Students deficient in level of performance or academic preparation should be prepared to extend their studies beyond the normal four-year program in order to meet the requirements for graduation.

Students must complete the departmental requirements as listed for the B.A. degree in Dance with the exception of the dance electives. B.F.A. students must complete 6 units of electives (instead of the 10 units required for B.A. Dance majors) within dance. In addition, B.F.A. students must complete the requirements for either the specialization in Choreography or Performance. See the
UCI Catalogue
for the full list of requirements.

Learn more about the B.F.A. in Dance

For all course descriptions, please visit the
UCI Catalogue
.

USEFUL LINKS

GRADUATE PROGRAM IN DANCE

The Dance graduate program offers a Master of Fine Arts (M.F.A.) in Dance, an intensive, interdisciplinary course of study that integrates studio practice with academic and creative research. In their second year, students pursue individualized areas of interest and develop a written thesis and culminating project. Thesis work may include choreography, dance pedagogy, dance media and technology, dance training, dance science, and dance studies related to ecology, culture, society, aesthetics, and health and wellness.

IMPORTANT DATES - GRADUATES

Graduate application deadline
December 1, 2025

Live audition date
Friday, February 27, 2026

MASTER OF FINE ARTS (M.F.A.) IN DANCE

The M.F.A. in Dance at UC Irvine is an intensive two-year program that integrates advanced studio practice, academic study, and individualized research. Students train with fifteen full-time faculty in six professional studios and present original choreography in campus theaters and innovative spaces such as the Experimental Media Performance Lab (xMPL). The curriculum fosters creativity, expands dance literacy, and strengthens the connection between mind and body, culminating in a second-year thesis that may focus on choreography, dance education, history, or science. Most students receive funding through fellowships and teaching or research appointments, and graduates pursue diverse careers in higher education, private studios, professional companies, and advanced doctoral study.

Graduate Application Deadline: December 1, 2025

Audition Date:  February 27, 2026

Applicants for admission to the M.F.A. in Dance must meet the general requirements for admission to graduate studies and hold a bachelor's degree (B.A. or B.F.A. in Dance preferred) or equivalent. A minimum undergraduate grade point average of at least a B (3.0 on a 4.0 scale) is required. Admission to the Dance MFA is for Fall quarter only.

Apply online at
UCI Office of Graduate Studies
by December 1. All documents, including transcripts and letters of reference, must be received by December 1, 2025. The Department of Dance requires additional materials for admission to the graduate program. The Dance Graduate Admission Packet  includes additional materials that must be submitted by December 1st as well as information about the audition process. Auditions will be held in person on Friday, February 27, 2026 by invitation only.

Substantial financial aid is available in the form of fellowships and also in the form of employment as
Academic Student Employees (ASEs)
in areas such as dance technique, dance history and theory, music, video production, costuming, critical issues in dance, kinesiology, and injury prevention. Most MFA in Dance students are awarded financial aid.

Graduate students are also eligible to apply for various department, school, and
campus-wide
scholarship opportunities.

GENERAL

Normally two years of residence are required. Each candidate must enroll for three courses each quarter for six quarters, exclusive of summer sessions.

In the second year, satisfactory attainment must be demonstrated by a major thesis; in choreography this consists of the composition and production of a choreographic work; in other areas, such as dance history, dance training, or dance science, this consists of a written thesis or a comprehensive project in a chosen area of study. All theses must be defended in a one-hour oral examination which may also test the candidate’s general knowledge in the area.

The normative time to degree for students in the M.F.A. program is two years. Residence is required. The normative time to degree can be extended to three years only when a student requests extra time for more involved thesis research through a petition to the Chair of the Department. The maximum time to degree is three years. Students who do not complete the degree in three years will be dropped from the program.

Seventy-two quarter units in graduate or approved upper-division undergraduate courses must be completed with a grade of at least B in each course. No more than 20 units in upper-division courses may count toward the degree. Fulfillment of the technique course requirements must be approved by the faculty advisor.

Review the catalogue for specific requirements

Learn more about the M.F.A. in Dance

For all course descriptions, please visit the
UCI Catalogue
.