The Public Health Program strives to positively impact the health of our university community, and the health of communities beyond the university. Our faculty, staff, and students are committed to working with campus, regional, and global partners to identify and characterize challenges to human health, develop innovative research and intervention strategies, and advocate for social changes that will lead to a more human, just, and sustainable world.

ABOUT OUR PROGRAM

The Public Health Program in the College of Arts and Sciences offers the bachelor of science degree in public health science. The program also offers a minor degree in public health, and manages the Global Health Pathway of the University Core.

The public health science (PHS) major is an interdisciplinary degree focused on the health of human populations and individuals. Students will gain a solid foundation in biology and chemistry to understand the functioning of the human body in health and disease. The major further explores the influences of environmental and social factors on human health through required and elective public health courses, as well as relevant courses in the social sciences and humanities. Through the senior capstone and mandatory internship, PHS majors engage in health-focused service and research projects that apply their education to real-world public health problems, and integrate learning across disciplines. Students are encouraged to study abroad to gain perspective on global health issues.

FACULTY & STAFF

• Associate Professor Sonja Mackenzie
• Academic Department Manager Cory Mason Gong 408-554-5422 | Alumni Science 259
408-554-5422 | Alumni Science 259

BEYOND THE CLASSROOM

Internship

Study Abroad

Leadership Program

NEWS & EVENTS

OUR STORIES

• Jesuit Values in Action: The Unhoused Initiative and Public Health Students Partner for Change SCU public health students partnered with the Unhoused Initiative to document the health effects of displacement, blending research, advocacy, and Jesuit values.
SCU public health students partnered with the Unhoused Initiative to document the health effects of displacement, blending research, advocacy, and Jesuit values.

• Resilience inspires advocacy for public health graduate Roberto Mercado ’25 survived Hurricane Maria, then worked to uplift Latiné communities from Puerto Rico to California
Roberto Mercado ’25 survived Hurricane Maria, then worked to uplift Latiné communities from Puerto Rico to California

FOLLOW US ON SOCIAL MEDIA