2025-26 ACADEMIC CATALOG

ABOUT

Message from the President
Academic Affairs
About Stanislaus State
Campus Life and Student Engagement
The California State University
Directories

What’s New?
- View changes to programs and policies for this catalog year

WHAT ARE CATALOG RIGHTS?

Undergraduate Students:
Students may elect to satisfy degree requirements for a different
Catalog Year for Graduation Requirements
. Follow the link for more information and talk to your academic advisor.

Graduate Students:
Students who, since gaining Classified Graduate Standing status, have maintained continuous enrollment, may elect to satisfy the degree requirements in effect at the time of gaining Classified Graduate Standing status or at the time of completing their degree requirements.

ARCHIVED CATALOGS

Are you looking for a different catalog? Visit the
Archived Catalogs
page to view previous catalogs.

ADVISING RESOURCES

These advising tools will help guide your path to graduation.

STAN Planner and Degree Progress

Your tools to help guide your path to graduation - all within your
Student Center
.

USER GUIDE & ICONS

Academic programs currently offered at the
Stanislaus State Stockton Campus
are followed by an asterisk (*) in the catalog.

SHARE

Share catalog information on Facebook and Twitter.

PRINT-FRIENDLY

Selecting this icon will generate a pop-up page formatted to neatly print.

HELP

Includes more information about how to use the catalog.

DEGREE PLANNER

Provides a print-friendly version of the degree requirements. Always review requirements with your academic plan with your advisor.

MY FAVORITES

Are there pages you visit frequently? Create a portfolio by clicking on the
My Favorites
link on any page. Add courses or programs by selecting the star symbol.

CHANGES IN RULES & POLICIES

Although every effort has been made to assure the accuracy of the information in this catalog, students and others who use this catalog should note that laws, rules and policies change from time to time and that these changes may alter the information contained in this publication. Changes may come in the form of statutes enacted by the Legislature, rules and policies adopted by the Board of Trustees of the California State University, by the Chancellor or designee of the California State University, or by the President or designee of the campus. It is not possible in a publication of this size to include all of the rules, policies, and other information that pertain to students, the institution, and the California State University. More current or complete information may be obtained from the appropriate department, school, or administrative office.

Nothing in this catalog shall be construed as, operate as, or have the effect of an abridgment or a limitation of any rights, powers, or privileges of the Board of Trustees of the California State University, the Chancellor of the California State University, or the President of the campus. The Trustees, the Chancellor, and the President are authorized by law to adopt, amend, or repeal rules and policies that apply to students. This catalog does not constitute a contract or the terms and conditions of a contract between the student and the campus or the California State University. The relationship of the students to the campus and the California State University is one governed by statute, rules, and policy adopted by the Legislature, the Trustees, the Chancellor, the Presidents, and their duly authorized designees.

CATALOG PRODUCTION CREDITS:

Dr. Stuart Wooley
, Vice Provost | Associate Vice President for Academic Affairs

Neesha Oliver,
Curriculum Specialist | Lead Catalog Editor

Britteny Black
, Administrative Support Coordinator II | Catalog Editor

For questions about the catalog, email
AcademicPrograms@csustan.edu