BACHELOR OF ARTS (BA) IN CRIMINAL JUSTICE

Practice compassionate advocacy, honor human dignity, and keep communities safe by
earning your BA in Criminal Justice degree at Azusa Pacific University.

Request Information

• Home
• >
• Programs
• >
• Bachelor of Arts (BA) in Criminal Justice

WHY MAJOR IN CRIMINAL JUSTICE AT APU?

Upholding an Imago Dei framework, APU’s criminal justice major empowers you for a
life of service and influence.

Our degree program emphasizes hands-on learning, rigorous academic training, and real-world
application. This ensures that you have the expertise and tools needed to tackle complex
challenges in today’s justice system and shape the future of crime prevention, policing
practices, and correctional policy.

During your time in the bachelor’s in criminal justice program, you’ll benefit from

• a mission-oriented curriculum that challenges you academically and inspires you spiritually;
• field experience that helps you apply your theoretical knowledge in real-world settings;
• dedicated faculty members who bring years of experience in the criminal justice system
 to your training; and
• opportunities to network with a diverse range of professionals, including law enforcement,
 prosecutors, probation officers, and more.
Review Admission Requirements

PROGRAM AT A GLANCE

UPCOMING EVENTS

APU One Day

• Saturday, June 13, 2026
• Saturday, July 11, 2026

APPLICATION DEADLINE

At APU, we have rolling admissions. This means we accept and review applications on
a continuous basis.

Apply Now

PROGRAM INFORMATION

• Program Units: 51

LOCATION

• Azusa (Main Campus)
Yellow Ribbon and Military Friendly School

WHAT YOU’LL LEARN

As a criminal justice major at APU, you build a strong foundation in interdisciplinary
research, analytical and ethical thinking, and real-world application that prepares
you to lead in today’s criminal justice systems.

While progressing through the criminal justice degree program, you learn how to

• use criminological theories to understand criminal behavior and victimization and
 their impact on society;
• evaluate criminal law, criminal procedure, constitutional protections, and correctional
 practices within the U.S. legal system;
• integrate social science research and data to inform evidence-based justice practices
 and decision-making;
• examine the impact of criminal justice policies and outcomes related to underserved
 and vulnerable populations; and
• operate from a Christian worldview by applying ethical reasoning that upholds the
 dignity of individuals and communities.

GET STARTED

PROGRAM DETAILS

Advocate for safer societies by pursuing a BA in Criminal Justice. Through our rigorous
program, you gain the skills and expertise to help reduce crime, advance police practices,
and improve corrections.

Some core courses in the criminal justice program include:

• Criminal Justice, Civic Engagement, and Social Responsibility
• Police and Society
• Juvenile Justice
• American Court System
• Victimology
• Race, Ethnicity, and Crime
Students can tailor their learning through a wide range of elective options and an
internship.
Browse the full list of courses
.

Step into your God-given calling at Azusa Pacific University. We created a straightforward
undergraduate admissions process
that helps you take the next step toward a purpose-filled education.

The prerequisites and required next steps for applying to APU vary depending on your
student type. Select your enrollment path for more detailed admissions information:

• First-time Freshman
• Transfer
• International
Have questions along the way?
Connect with our dedicated admissions representatives to get the support you need
.

Azusa Pacific University makes a Christ-centered education affordable and accessible.
To help you cover the cost of your criminal justice bachelor’s degree, we offer a
range of
financial aid
options, including federal loans, state grants, fellowships, and scholarships.

For more information, contact the
Student Services Center
at (626) 815-2020.

SCHOLARSHIPS AND GRANTS

Scholarships
and
grants
are considered gift aid, meaning they do not require repayment. These awards may
come from federal, state, institutional, or private sources. Scholarships are often
merit-based and awarded for academic achievement, leadership, or other demonstrated
talents.

While APU does award scholarships, you can also find external scholarship opportunities
through websites such as
Finaid
and
Fastweb
. Contact the
Student Services Center
about scholarships offered through APU departments or local organizations.

STUDENT EMPLOYMENT

Along with gift aid and student loans, you can apply for
on-campus student employment
opportunities to earn additional income to pay for education-related expenses. As
an APU student, you can also find work off campus in the surrounding community.

MILITARY AND VETERANS BENEFITS

If you are a veteran, serve in the military, or qualify as a spouse or dependent,
you may access financial assistance
that helps cover the cost of tuition, housing, and books. As a
Yellow Ribbon and Military Friendly School
, APU offers the support and flexibility needed to help you complete your bachelor’s
degree.

NET PRICE CALCULATOR

We’re committed to helping you understand the value of the APU experience early in
the college search process. Once you’ve explored the financial aid opportunities available,
take the next step by estimating your cost to attend. The Net Price Calculator provides
a personalized estimate based on the information you share, so you can start planning
today!

Calculate Net Price

At APU, we’re committed to delivering the highest quality education, backed by respected
accreditation and academic excellence. Azusa Pacific University is accredited by the
WASC Senior College and University Commission (WSCUC)
.

BY THE NUMBERS

CAREER OUTCOMES FOR CRIMINAL JUSTICE MAJORS

Launch a purpose-filled career with a Bachelor of Arts in Criminal Justice degree.
Created to prepare you for roles across the justice system, our program empowers you
for positions ranging from information security analyst and paralegal or legal assistant
to private detective and law enforcement officer.

STUDENT PORTRAITS: ASHLEY LUCAS ’19, CRIMINAL JUSTICE

Ashley Lucas ’19 studied criminal justice at Azusa Pacific with the hope of working
with juveniles and changing the criminal justice system to benefit individuals hindered
by it.

Watch Ashley’s Story

DEPARTMENT OF CRIMINAL JUSTICE FACULTY

APU’s criminal justice faculty serve as instructors and mentors, guiding you through
an intensive curriculum grounded in justice, ethics, and social responsibility.

CANDICE R. WILLIAMS

Associate Professor

Meet Your Faculty

BECOME A VOICE OF INFLUENCE AT APU

Azusa Pacific University’s Bachelor of Arts in Criminal Justice empowers you to lead
with integrity and compassion.  Our program delivers hands-on training and academic
formation to address complex justice challenges and protect communities.

Apply Now

RELATED PROGRAMS

SOCIOLOGY MAJOR

• Azusa

POLITICAL SCIENCE MAJOR

• Azusa

PSYCHOLOGY MAJORS

• Azusa