UNDERGRADUATE ADMISSIONS

LIVE LIFE BEYOND AT SAN DIEGO CHRISTIAN COLLEGE

San Diego Christian College is a four-year college centered on Christ and anchored in the Truth of the Scriptures. We are committed to
equipping students for life
and preparing believers to
impact the world for Christ.
At San Diego Christian College we are caring for and growing the whole person—spiritually, emotionally, civically, and academically.

We believe in delivering an education that is transformative and pushes our students to engage, evaluate, and ultimately
transform their world.

APPLICATION PROCESS

The Department of Residential Undergraduate Admissions at San Diego Christian College accepts students for both the Spring and Fall semesters each year.

Some application requirements vary by student type (e.g. transfers and freshman have different application requirements).

Please click  the link below that is specific to you in order to find more information on application materials and requirements. A Residential Undergraduate student is one who attends full-time and takes classes during the day on our Santee campus.

First-Time College Students
Transfer Students
Readmit Students
International Students
Homeschool Students
Veteran & Military Programs
Parent Information

APPLICATION DEADLINES

San Diego Christian College adheres to a rolling admission policy. Applicants may apply any time before the start of a term. However, the timing in which you receive your financial aid award and registration for classes is dependent on when you complete your application (including all application materials). See below for the SDCC application deadlines.

Fall Semester

• Early Action Deadline: November 15 – For top academic scholarship consideration and application decision by December 1. Students who are accepted by this date and have submitted their FAFSA will start receiving their financial aid award letters on Dec. 1st. Financial aid awards will be emailed to students within one week of acceptance/FAFSA submission.
• Priority Deadline: January 15 – For top academic scholarship consideration and application decision by February 2.
• Regular Decision Deadline: March 15 – For early scholarship consideration and application decision within three weeks.
• Rolling Admission Deadline: August 1 –For regular scholarship consideration and application decision upon receipt of all application materials. Students who are accepted after July 1 will have limited payment plan options.
Spring Semester

• Regular Decision Deadline: November 1 – For early scholarship consideration and application decision upon receipt of all application materials. Financial aid awards will be emailed to students within one week of acceptance/FAFSA submission.
• Tuition Deposit Deadline: December 1

AFTER ACCEPTANCE

Upon Acceptance into San Diego Christian College, you can expect to receive an email containing after-acceptance steps from your Admissions Counselor. If you have any questions or did not receive the After-Acceptance email, contact your Admissions Counselor promptly.

Click here
for after-acceptance information

MAKE IT OFFICIAL!

Students who have been accepted may
click here
to submit their tuition deposit.

I WOULD LIKE MORE INFORMATION