BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (BS) IN KINESIOLOGY

From physical therapy to athletic training, gain the expertise needed to help people
improve their quality of life with your kinesiology degree.

Request Information

• Home
• >
• Programs
• >
• Bachelor of Science (BS) in Kinesiology

A GOLD STANDARD IN STUDENT WELLNESS

APU earned Gold-level recognition from the American College of Sports Medicine's Exercise
is Medicine®️ On Campus initiative—one of only 91 universities nationwide, four in
Southern California, and three in the Council for Christian Colleges and Universities
to receive this honor.

Visit Campus Movement Page

WHY MAJOR IN KINESIOLOGY AT APU?

Deepen your knowledge and extend your impact in the field of human health and wellness
by earning your Bachelor of Science in Kinesiology at Azusa Pacific University.

Our program equips you with a strong scientific foundation and clinical skills to
apply evidence-based practice and advance whole-person care. You can choose from four
concentrations—Applied Exercise Science, Clinical Exercise Science, Strength and Conditioning,
or the Doctor of Physical Therapy (DPT) Accelerated Pathway—each designed to prepare
you to lead in diverse health and fitness careers.

In our bachelor's degree in kinesiology program, you benefit from

• an in-depth understanding of how exercise, movement, and sport benefit human health
 and wellness;
• access to state-of-the-art facilities, including biomechanics and human performance
 laboratories with advanced motion-capture technology;
• hands-on internships at well-established practicum sites under the guidance of health,
 rehabilitation, and exercise science professionals;
• a holistic Christian worldview that approaches health, fitness, and wellness by caring
 for the whole person—mind, body, and spirit; and
• certifications in personal training, corrective exercise, and strength and conditioning
 that boost your career readiness.
Review Admission Requirements

PROGRAM AT A GLANCE

UPCOMING EVENTS

APU One Day

• Saturday, June 13, 2026
• Saturday, July 11, 2026

APPLICATION DEADLINE

At APU, we have rolling admissions. This means we accept and review applications on
a continuous basis.

Apply Now

PROGRAM INFORMATION

• Program Units: 53-72

LOCATION

• Azusa (Main Campus)
Yellow Ribbon and Military Friendly School

WHAT YOU’LL LEARN

Explore the mechanical and physiological principles that drive human movement and
performance. Through innovative coursework and immersive lab experiences, you’ll examine
the resilience and strength of the human body and how it adapts, responds, and transforms
under stress.

As you progress through the kinesiology major, you’ll

• analyze how the skeletal and muscular systems interact during physical activity using
 biomechanics;
• study the body’s acute and chronic responses to exercise, including how nutrition
 and metabolic processes fuel human performance;
• explore how the nervous system coordinates movement and how motor skills develop across
 the human lifespan;
• design and implement specialized fitness programs tailored to unique health needs
 and specific athletic goals;
• review kinesiology literature and apply research methodology to solve real-world health
 challenges; and
• refine your professional communication by articulating complex scientific data through
 specialized writing and clinical reporting.
Additionally, you’ll take part in an internship that transforms classroom knowledge
into real-world expertise. Under the guidance of an exercise science professional,
you’ll gain experience assessing, designing, implementing, and managing exercise and
fitness programs.

Review Kinesiology Requirements

GET STARTED

KINESIOLOGY PROGRAM DETAILS

Discover the science of how the body moves and how you can enrich patients’ health,
performance, and quality of life. Our BS in Kinesiology challenges you to examine
human performance from every angle, combining physiology and biomechanics with hands-on
application in clinical and athletic settings.

From your first courses to your final internship, our program sharpens your analytical
thinking, prepares you for graduate school and the professional world, and inspires
you to serve others through evidence-based practice, coaching, rehabilitation, and
holistic care.

APU’s kinesiology program positions you for success through four specialized concentrations
that align your academic preparation with your professional goals.

APPLIED EXERCISE SCIENCE

Take your passion for athletics and transform it into a thriving career with APU’s
applied exercise science concentration. Through lab-based experiences, you develop
the expertise to assess clients, design evidence-based training plans, and implement
programs that elevate health and performance.

Compared to other concentrations in APU’s Kinesiology program, this track features
fewer required science courses and expanded elective options. That flexibility allows
you to tailor your coursework to match specific interests or add a minor that aligns
with your desired career path. You’ll also complete nearly 100 hours of supervised
internship experience at one of APU’s 80 approved partner sites to kick-start your
professional development.

Whether you aspire to become a coach, a strength and conditioning specialist, or a
wellness leader, you graduate prepared to serve others with compassion and expertise.

CLINICAL EXERCISE SCIENCE

The Clinical Exercise Science concentration prepares students for graduate study and
careers in physical therapy, occupational therapy, athletic training, chiropractic,
physician assistant, and other allied health fields. The curriculum provides a strong
scientific foundation and opportunities to complete prerequisite coursework for admission
to graduate programs. Students complete 100 hours of supervised internship experience
at one of more than 80 approved sites.

Note: Many graduate school programs require the completion of prerequisite science
courses for acceptance. While this concentration is designed to help students complete
their graduate school prerequisites, not all graduate school prerequisites may be
met by the concentration. Students are responsible for researching the requirements
of graduate programs and professions in which they are interested.

STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING

The Strength and Conditioning concentration prepares students for careers in sport
science, human performance, and related fields. Coursework includes strength and conditioning,
exercise physiology, biomechanics, sports nutrition, and research in exercise science.
Through these experiences, students learn to design and implement evidence-based training
programs that enhance athletic performance. Students complete 300 hours of supervised
field experience under the guidance of CSCS-certified professionals in strength and
conditioning settings. This concentration is designed for students interested in working
with athletes and active populations in sport, performance, tactical, and rehabilitation
settings. Graduates are prepared for the NSCA Certified Strength and Conditioning
Specialist (CSCS) certification.

ACCELERATED DOCTOR OF PHYSICAL THERAPY PATHWAY

Jump-start your journey to becoming a physical therapist at APU. Our BS in Kinesiology/Doctor
of Physical Therapy (DPT) accelerated concentration fast-tracks your path to graduate
school. You’ll complete 3.5 years of undergraduate coursework, meet entry requirements,
and dive into APU’s
Doctor of Physical Therapy program
sooner.

If accepted into the DPT program, you’ll begin doctoral coursework in the spring of
your fourth year. During that semester, you’ll complete 18 units of required graduate-level
courses, fulfilling your BS in Kinesiology and undergraduate requirements. After finishing
those courses, you’ll earn your bachelor’s degree and transition seamlessly into the
DPT program.

We created a straightforward
undergraduate admissions process
that helps you gain certifications in the areas of personal training, corrective
exercise, strength and conditioning, and exercise physiology.

The prerequisites and required next steps for applying to APU vary depending on your
student type. Select your enrollment path for more detailed admissions information:

• First-time Freshman
• Transfer Student
• International Student
Azusa Pacific University makes a Christ-centered education affordable and accessible.
To help you cover the cost of your kinesiology bachelor’s degree, we offer a range
of
financial aid
options, including federal loans, state grants, fellowships, and scholarships.

For more information, contact the
Student Services Center
at (626) 815-2020.

SCHOLARSHIP AND GRANTS

Scholarships
and
grants
are considered gift aid, meaning you don’t have to repay these dollars. These awards
may come from federal, state, institutional, or private sources. Scholarships are
often merit-based and awarded for academic achievement, leadership, or other demonstrated
talents.

While APU does award scholarships, you can also find external scholarship opportunities
through websites such as
Finaid
and
Fastweb
.

Contact the
Student Services Center
about scholarships offered through APU departments or local organizations.

STUDENT EMPLOYMENT

Along with gift aid and student loans, you can apply for
on-campus student employment
opportunities to earn additional income to pay for education-related expenses. As
an APU student, you can also find work off campus in the surrounding community.

MILITARY AND VETERANS BENEFITS

If you are a veteran, serve in the military, or qualify as a spouse or dependent,
you may access financial assistance
that helps cover the cost of tuition, housing, and books. As a
Yellow Ribbon and Military Friendly School
, APU offers the support and flexibility needed to complete your bachelor’s degree
in kinesiology.

NET PRICE CALCULATOR

We’re here to help you understand the value of the APU experience early in the college
search process. Once you’ve explored the financial aid opportunities available, take
the next step by estimating your cost to attend. The Net Price Calculator provides
a personalized estimate based on the information you share, so you can start planning
today!

Calculate Net Price

Calculate Net Price

At APU, we’re committed to delivering the highest quality education, backed by respected
accreditation and academic excellence. Azusa Pacific University is accredited by the
WASC Senior College and University Commission (WSCUC)
.

BY THE NUMBERS

CAREER OUTLOOK AND OUTCOMES

Ready to shape the future of sport and allied health? A BS in Kinesiology builds a
comprehensive understanding of physiology, biomechanics, motor behavior, and human
performance. This robust scientific expertise equips you to improve lives and support
someone’s healing journey.

A bachelor’s degree in kinesiology opens doors to graduate education opportunities
and diverse career paths, including:

• Athletic trainer
• Exercise physiologist
• Occupational therapist
• Physical education teacher
• Physician assistant
• Sports psychologist
• Strength and conditioning coach
These roles represent just a starting point. The
American Kinesiology Association
outlines more than 30 professional pathways supported by advanced training in kinesiology,
from clinical care to rehabilitation research to sport performance and beyond.

CLIFFORD YOUNG III: RESTING IN GOD’S GRACE

Explore the journey of Clifford Young III ’23 to earning his Bachelor of Science in
Kinesiology with a concentration in health professions and finding his place in APU’s
faith-centered community.

Read Clifford’s Story

DEPARTMENT OF KINESIOLOGY FACULTY

At Azusa Pacific, our kinesiology faculty invest in your growth and challenge you
to think critically and compassionately. Whether you’re seeking support inside or
outside of the classroom, our professors offer guidance and personalized mentorship
that builds your confidence.

WILLIAM “JODY” WILKINSON

Chair and Professor, Department of Kinesiology

MADELINE CHEANEY

Program Director and Assistant Professor, Department of Kinesiology

Meet Your Faculty

EMPOWERING HEALTH LEADERS AT APU

Launch your career in health, sport, or rehabilitation with a Bachelor of Science
in Kinesiology from Azusa Pacific University. Through science-based expertise, clinical
training, and professional development, you’ll graduate prepared to inspire movement
and advance health and wellness in your community.

Ready to embrace a purpose-filled future? Apply to Azusa Pacific University today.

Apply Now

RELATED PROGRAMS

NUTRITION MINOR

• Azusa

PHYSICAL THERAPY, DPT

• Azusa

MS IN KINESIOLOGY

• Online
• Hybrid
• Azusa
Available Concentrations:

Sport and Physical Education, Exercise Science