CRIMINAL JUSTICE

Today’s criminal justice professionals require sophisticated analytical skills for
the study of crime and delinquency. Our program provides a comprehensive foundation
in theory, research methods, and data-driven analysis, preparing graduates for meaningful
and impactful careers across the criminal justice system.

CONTACT THE DEPARTMENT OF CRIMINAL JUSTICE

Address

We are located in
Hallway C of Dorothy Donahoe Hall
California State University, Bakersfield
Mail Stop: 24 DDH
9001 Stockdale Highway
Bakersfield, CA 93311-1022

Department Coordinator

Madison Alaine Tingey

Room: C114
Phone: (661) 654-2433
Email:
mtingey@csub.edu

Department Chair

Lindsay Nelson-Burkert
Room: C116
Phone: (661) 654-2088
Email:
lnelson11@csub.edu

CRIMINAL JUSTICE DEGREE

The Bachelor of Arts degree in Criminal Justice is designed to empower students as
critical thinkers, effective oral communicators, and competent writers on subject
matters of crime and justice; to include: (1) the nature, extent, and causation of
crime; (2) knowledge in research methods and statistical applications to promote an
understanding of criminal behavior and to assess the effectiveness of criminal justice
policies; (3) the role of criminal law in the regulation of human conduct and maintenance
of stability in society; (4) the philosophy, theory, policies, practices, processes,
and reform of the U.S. police agencies at the federal, state, and local levels; (5)
the philosophy and goals of criminal punishment and to understand the structure, processes,
and reform of the U.S. correctional agencies at the federal, state, and local levels.

For a closer look at our program, please visit the Criminal Justice
Course Descriptions
and
Degree Requirements
pages.

WHY CRIMINAL JUSTICE AT CSUB?

OUTSTANDING FACULTY

At CSU Bakersfield, students in Criminal Justice get to work closely with highly qualified
Ph.D. professors with diverse specialty areas and backgrounds. CSUB also welcomes
distinguished adjunct faculty, including local law enforcement officials, attorneys,
and state and county judges.

ACADEMIC EXCELLENCE

California State University, Bakersfield Criminal Justice Department offers coursework
for individuals who are interested in understanding the causes, responses, and impact
of crime on communities. Students learn about the criminal justice system's place
in society, its development through time, and how society's views towards crime and
punishment have shaped the system's actions, values, philosophies, and resources.

The
Bachelor of Arts
(B.A.) degree in Criminal Justice is designed to provide the student with familiarity
in the major components of the U.S. criminal justice system, including law enforcement,
prosecution, courts, and corrections. Criminal Justice majors leave CSUB grounded
in the intricacies of the U.S. justice system network, the theories underlying criminal
behavior, and the research methodologies required to understand complex criminal justice
issues. CSUB also offers a
minor
in Criminal Justice.

Additionally, majors and non-majors have the opportunity to take elective courses
on ethics, drugs, prisoners' and victims' rights, white collar crime, and terrorism,
as well as classes addressing race gender, crime, and justice.