• Skip Nav
• Accessibility
• Calendar
• Directory
• A to Z
• Webmail
• Advanced Search
• Home
• Majors
• Minors
• Policies & Procedures
• General Education
• Graduate Studies
• Faculty
• Courses
• Overview
• Programs
• Faculty
• Courses

PROGRAM:
RADIOLOGIC SCIENCES, B.S.

• email
• print
• Home
• /
• Programs
• /
• Radiologic Sciences, B.S.

PROGRAM DESCRIPTION

The Radiologic Sciences B.S. degree program prepares practitioners (radiologic technologists) to work with patients and physicians, performing a wide variety of diagnostic imaging procedures within the radiology (X-ray) department. The radiologic technologists must know the principles of anatomy, physiology, pathology, radiographic imaging, radiation safety, the operation of many types of X-ray and computerized equipment, the professional care and handling of patients, and the management of a radiology department or division. The baccalaureate program provides a multicompetent advanced imaging practitioner for the diagnostic team. Program competencies include experiences with standard X-ray equipment, angiographic suites, computerized tomography (CT), magnetic resonance (MR), interventional radiography (IR) and mammography.

The Radiologic Sciences program consists of two phases: The Pre-Professional and Professional phases. During the Pre-Professional portion, students complete the University General Education requirements and the Radiologic Sciences prerequisites. Upon completion of the Pre-Professional Phase, students become eligible to apply to the professional Radiologic Sciences program, which includes 2,600 hours of clinical internship at affiliated medical centers. A limited number of clinical placements at these medical centers are available each year for students accepted into the Professional Phase. A separate application to the Radiologic Sciences Program Selection Committee for clinical internship placement is due the second Friday of January in the CSUN Health Sciences department.

Radiologic Sciences student advisement, a tour of a clinical facility and a minimum of 40 hours of volunteer hours in an acute-care hospital facility must occur and be documented prior to the Professional Program interview. See the department for applications and information regarding selection criteria for the Professional Phase of the program or visit the
Department of Health Sciences
website. Note that meeting prerequisite criteria does not guarantee placement into the Professional Program. If selected to the Professional Program, prior to clinical placements, all CSUN Radiologic Science students are required to obtain their own criminal background check at their sole cost and to supply that information to designated approving agencies or persons. In order to meet accreditation standards, many clinical agencies are requiring background checks and drug testing on all students placed at their facilities and have the right to refuse a student’s clinical placement based on this information. Students will be unable to complete degree requirements if clinical placements are refused at any time during the professional portion of the B.S. Radiologic Sciences program. Further information on background checks and where to obtain them is available from Radiologic Science advisors.

Professional Radiologic Science students are responsible for obtaining at their sole cost any necessary health exams, immunizations, evidence of a TB test, titers or other requirements necessary to meet OSHA requirements and maintain compliance with requirements by the University and affiliating clinical agencies. Documentation of the requirements is to be submitted to the contracted recordkeeping site upon request. Before the first Clinical course, each student is required to complete a preclinical checklist and provide proof that requirements are currently met. Access to reliable transportation is required for clinical courses off campus.

MISSION STATEMENT

The mission of the CSUN baccalaureate Radiologic Sciences program is to provide the community with competent, professional radiologic technologists who possess additional advanced medical imaging skills in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), computed tomography (CT) and interventional radiography (IR) that meet the needs of the medical imaging community through a highly integrated and advanced-level clinical and academic curriculum.

PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS

1. LOWER DIVISION REQUIRED COURSES (31 UNITS)

BIOL 101 General Biology (3)
BIOL 101L General Biology Lab (1)
BIOL 211 Human Anatomy (2)
BIOL 212 Lab Studies in Human Anatomy (1)
BIOL 281 Human Physiology (3)
CHEM 100 Principles of Chemistry (3)
MATH 106 Mathematical Foundations for Non-Calculus Physics (5)
PHYS 100A General Physics I (3)
PHYS 100B General Physics II (3)
PHYS 100BL General Physics II Lab (1)
PSY 150 Introduction to Psychology (3)
SOC 150 Introductory Sociology (3)

2. CLINICAL REQUIRED COURSES (19 UNITS)

HSCI 280 Radiologic Sciences: Clinical Education I (2)
HSCI 281 Radiologic Sciences: Clinical Education II (2)
HSCI 282 Radiologic Sciences: Clinical Education III (3)
HSCI 283 Radiologic Sciences: Clinical Education IV (3)
HSCI 284 Radiologic Sciences: Clinical Education V (3)
HSCI 386 Radiologic Sciences: Clinical Education VI (3)
HSCI 387 Radiologic Sciences: Clinical Education VII (3)

3. PROFESSIONAL REQUIRED COURSES (39 UNITS)

HSCI 181 Medical Imaging Sciences I (3)
HSCI 182 Medical Imaging Sciences II (3)
HSCI 285 Radiographic Anatomy and Positioning I (4)
HSCI 286 Radiographic Anatomy and Positioning II (4)
HSCI 287 Cultural Awareness and Patient Care in Medical Imaging (3)
HSCI 302 Basic Pathophysiology (3)
HSCI 380 Cross-Sectional Anatomy for Radiographers (2)
HSCI 385 Quality Assurance and Evaluation of Radiology Imaging Equipment (2)
HSCI 388 MRI Safety and Advanced Imaging Procedures (2)
HSCI 480 Computed Tomography (2)
HSCI 482 Angiography and Interventional Procedures (3)
HSCI 485 Principles of MRI (3)
HSCI 486A Seminar: Advances in Radiologic Imaging I (1)
HSCI 486B Seminar: Advances in Radiologic Imaging II (1)
PHYS 376 Radiologic Physics (3)

4. UPPER DIVISION REQUIRED HEALTH SCIENCES CORE (10 UNITS)

HSCI 390/L Biostatistics and Lab (3/1)
HSCI 487 Professional Development for Radiographers (3)
HSCI 488 Epidemiology (3)

5. GENERAL EDUCATION (43 UNITS)

Undergraduate students must complete 43 units of
General Education
as described in this Catalog, including 3 units of coursework meeting the
Ethnic Studies (E.S.)
requirement.

19 units are satisfied by the following courses in the major:
MATH 106
satisfies Basic Skills Area 2 Mathematical Concepts and Quantitative Reasoning;
PSY 150
and
SOC 150
satisfy Area 4 Social and Behavioral Sciences;
CHEM 100
satisfies Area 5A Physical Science;
BIOL 101
satisfies Area 5B Biological Science Science;
BIOL 101L
satisfies Area 5C Science Laboratory Activity; and
PHYS 376
satisfies Area 5 Physical and Biological Sciences, Upper Division.

4. CAMPUS REQUIREMENTS (6 UNITS)

Undergraduate students must complete 6 units of
Campus Requirements
as described in this Catalog.
HSCI 487
meets the Lifelong Learning requirement.

TOTAL UNITS IN THE MAJOR: 99

GENERAL EDUCATION UNITS: 24

CAMPUS REQUIREMENT UNITS: 3

TOTAL UNITS REQUIRED FOR THE B.S. DEGREE: 126

Upon successful completion (minimum of “C” in each course), the student will earn a B.S. degree in Radiologic Sciences, as well as a Certificate of Clinical Completion from the clinical institutions. Completion of both academic and clinical work enables the student to sit for the National Registry administered by the American Registry of Radiologic Technologists and the licensing exam given by the State of California Department of Public Health—Radiologic Health Branch (CRT).

MORE INFORMATION

For more information about this program, please contact
hsci@csun.edu
.

CONTACT

Department of Health Sciences
Chair: Bethany Rainisch
Jacaranda Hall (JD) 2500
(818) 677-4081
hsci@csun.edu

Program Director: Doris Abrishami
Jacaranda Hall (JD) 2507
(818) 677-6976

PROGRAM LEARNING OUTCOMES

Students receiving a Bachelor of Science in Radiologic Sciences will be able to:

• Demonstrate a mastery of basic radiographic and advanced medical imaging skills in MRI, CT and IR.
• Demonstrate effective communication skills that provide compassionate, culturally competent and age-appropriate patient care.
• Demonstrate problem-solving/critical-thinking skills that provide ethical and safe patient care.
• Demonstrate the value of professional development for patient care and medical imaging through lifelong learning that meets the needs of the medical imaging community.
• Maintain program effectiveness through continual assessment.

DEGREE ROAD MAPS

Radiologic Sciences (2025-Present)

Previous Years

TRANSFER ROAD MAPS

Radiologic Sciences (2025-Present)

Previous Years

View Catalog Archives, Degree Road Maps and external resources here: