BACHELOR OF ARTS IN AFRICANA STUDIES

Students majoring in Africana Studies are required to complete a program consisting of core courses and electives organized into emphases. The core courses provide students with an appreciation of the historical development and intellectual foundation of the discipline as well as the critical knowledge base, intellectual skills, and methodological techniques essential to the field of Africana Studies. The courses offered in the emphases allow the student to gain a deeper intellectual grasp of the field within several  important emphases: Africana Humanities, Africana Behavioral and Social Sciences, Africana Educational Studies and Technology, Elijah Muhammad Studies, and Gender and Sexuality Studies.

Africana Humanities: Offers a wide range of courses that allows students to develop creative and critical thinking skills.  Courses in this area prepares students to apply knowledge in the humanities as tool to empower Africana communities.

Africana Behavioral and Social Sciences: This area of emphasis prepares students to address some of the most pressing issues facing people of African descent and their communities. The knowledge gained in this area equips students for leadership in diverse settings.

Africana Educational Studies and Technology:
The Africana Educational Studies and Technology area study prepares students to become transformative leaders in the education of African and African Diasporic students during the age of Artificial Intelligence.  Students will learn about the history of Black people and how this can be used to improve the educational experiences of Black students, while contributing to creating global citizens. Technology will be discussed in the courses as a functional asset in education, community building, and restoration.  In each course, the critical application of technology will be surveyed to display the intersection of education with technology, social movements, and community engagement.
Students will engage in Black Emancipatory Action Research, Black Womanist Archival Traditions, Critical Race Theory, and others while having the opportunity to learn about Critical Black Pedagogy and African Centered Pedagogy that are culturally sustaining in teaching and elevating the Black community.
This area study is for any educator or community builder who wants to deepen their skill set in working with African and African Diasporic communities to inspire social innovations in education through Black History and technology.

Elijah Muhammad Studies: This area of emphasis prepares students to understand Islam as a growing religion among African Americans. It particularly focuses on the Nation of Islam as a movement to empower Africana people while becoming more inclusive of diverse populations. The students in this area of emphasis learn about Elijahmataology to understand the interdisciplinary scope of the Elijah Muhammad’s teaching, its application to Africana people, and contribution to contemporary academic discourses.

Gender and Sexuality Studies:
This area of emphasis prepares students to understand gender and sexuality in Africana communities.
It explores issues that are pertinent to Black men studies, Black women, and sexual orientation.

PROGRAM LEARNING OUTCOMES

• Demonstrate knowledge about the discipline, the conceptual approaches and tools to explore, explain, and advance the lived experiences of Africana people.
• Illustrate cogent scientific and humanistic approaches of study and research relevant to Africana people and apply this with community-based and service-oriented educative learning projects.
• Evaluate issues that people of African descent experience in unique and common ways and their resilience in shaping environments, achieving goals and resisting oppression.
• Articulate a sound understanding of Africana culture, creative and artistic achievement, oral communications, and social movements that advance and enhance the liberation of Africana people.
• Core Requirements (27 units)
• Areas of Emphasis (9 units) Africana Humanities Emphasis Africana Behavioral and Social Sciences Emphasis Africana Educational Studies and Technology Emphasis Elijah Muhammad Studies Emphasis Gender and Sexuality Studies Emphasis Graduation Writing Assessment Requirement (3 units) Complementary Studies General Education Requirements
• Africana Humanities Emphasis
• Africana Behavioral and Social Sciences Emphasis
• Africana Educational Studies and Technology Emphasis
• Elijah Muhammad Studies Emphasis
• Gender and Sexuality Studies Emphasis
• Graduation Writing Assessment Requirement (3 units)
• Complementary Studies
• General Education Requirements

AFRICANA STUDIES (B.A.)
– 39 UNITS

The Bachelor of Arts in Africana Studies includes core courses (27 units), an area of emphasis (9 units), and a GWAR course (3 units).

CORE REQUIREMENTS (27 UNITS)

AREAS OF EMPHASIS (9 UNITS)

Select 9 units on advisement from one area below to gain a deeper intellectual grasp of the field.

AFRICANA HUMANITIES EMPHASIS

AFRICANA BEHAVIORAL AND SOCIAL SCIENCES EMPHASIS

AFRICANA EDUCATIONAL STUDIES AND TECHNOLOGY EMPHASIS

ELIJAH MUHAMMAD STUDIES EMPHASIS

GENDER AND SEXUALITY STUDIES EMPHASIS

GRADUATION WRITING ASSESSMENT REQUIREMENT (3 UNITS)

Note:
A minimum of 30 upper-division units must be completed for the degree (including upper-division units required for the major, general education, electives, etc.). A student can complete this major yet not attain the necessary number of upper-division units required for graduation. In this case, additional upper-division courses will be needed to reach the required total.

COMPLEMENTARY STUDIES

Students completing a Bachelor of Arts in Africana Studies must complete twelve units in complementary studies in courses bearing a prefix other than AFRS or courses cross-listed with AFRS. These units may be in

• a language other than English;
• one course from each AA S, AIS, LTNS, and RRS;
• four courses from one prefix: AA S or AIS or LTNS or RRS;
• a minor or certificate;
• units earned in a study abroad program; or
• a coherent group of courses complementary to the major.
With the approval of an advisor in the major, courses that fulfill the complementary studies requirement may be lower or upper-division units, resident or transfer units.

GENERAL EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS

Note: LD = Lower-Division; UD = Upper-Division.

FIRST-TIME STUDENT ROADMAP (4 YEAR)

• The roadmaps presented in this Bulletin are intended as suggested plans of study and do not replace meeting with an advisor. For a more personalized roadmap, please use the Degree Planner tool found in your Student Center .
• To select your English Composition A2 course and your QR/Math B4 course, please complete the online advising activities at writingadvising.sfsu.edu and mathadvising.sfsu.edu . Questions? Contact Gator Smart Start .
First-Time Student Roadmap

TRANSFER STUDENT ROADMAP (2 YEAR)

Students with the following ADTs should use this roadmap:
ADT Roadmap
AA-T in
Child and Adolescent Development
AA-T in
History
AA-T in
Law, Public Policy, and Society
AA-T in
Music
AA-T in
Political Science
AA-T in
Social Justice Studies
AA-T in
Social Work and Human Services

Students with an AA-T in
African American Studies
should use this roadmap:
AFRS ADT Roadmap

SF STATE SCHOLARS ROADMAP

The San Francisco State Scholars program provides undergraduate students with an accelerated pathway to a graduate degree. Students in this program pursue a bachelor’s and master’s degree simultaneously. This program allows students to earn graduate credit while in their junior and/or senior year, reducing the number of semesters required for completion of a master’s degree.

Africana Studies BA + Ethnic Studies MA SF State Scholars Roadmap

California legislation SB 1440 (2009) mandated the creation of the Associate Degree for Transfer (ADT) to be awarded by the California Community Colleges. Two types of ADTs are awarded: Associate in Arts for Transfer (AA-T) and Associate in Science for Transfer (AS-T).

Note: no specific degree is required for admission as an upper-division student. However, the ADT includes specific guarantees related to admission and graduation and is designed to clarify the transfer process and strengthen lower-division preparation for the major.

An ADT totals 60 units and in most cases includes completion of all lower-division General Education requirements and at least 18 units in a specific major. (The Biology, Chemistry, and Environmental Science AS-T degrees defer 3 units in lower-division GE area 3 and 3 units in lower-division GE area 4 until after transfer.) Students pursuing an ADT are guaranteed admission to the CSU if minimum eligibility requirements are met, though not necessarily to the CSU campus of primary choice.

Upon verification that the ADT has been awarded prior to matriculation at SF State, students are guaranteed B.A. or B.S. completion in 60 units if pursuing a “similar” major after transfer. Determinations about “similar” majors at SF State are made by faculty in the discipline.

Degree completion in 60 units cannot be guaranteed when a student simultaneously pursues an additional major, a minor, certificate, or credential.

A sample advising roadmap for students who have earned an ADT and continue in a "similar" major at SF State is available on the Roadmaps tab on the degree requirements page for the major. The roadmap displays:

• How many lower-division units required for the major have been completed upon entry based on the award of a specific ADT;
• Which lower-division requirements are considered complete upon entry based on the award of a specific ADT;
• How to complete the remaining 60 units for the degree in four semesters.
Students who have earned an ADT should seek advising in the major department during the first semester of attendance.

GENERAL ADVISING INFORMATION FOR TRANSFER STUDENTS

• Before transfer, complete as many lower-division requirements or electives for this major as possible.
• The following courses are not required for admission but are required for graduation. Students are strongly encouraged to complete these units before transfer; doing so will provide more flexibility in course selection after transfer. a course in U.S. History a course in U.S. & California Government
• a course in U.S. History
• a course in U.S. & California Government
For information about satisfying the requirements described in (1) and (2) above at a California Community College (CCC), please visit
http://www.assist.org
. Check any geographically accessible CCCs; sometimes, options include more than one college. Use ASSIST to determine:

• Which courses at a CCC satisfy any lower-division major requirements for this major;
• Which courses at a CCC satisfy CSU GE, US History, and US & CA Government requirements.
Remedial courses are not transferable and do not apply to the minimum 60 semester units/90 quarter units required for admission.

Additional units for courses that are repeated do not apply to the minimum 60 units required for upper-division transfer (for example, if a course was not passed on the first attempt or was taken to earn a better grade).

Before leaving the last California Community College of attendance, obtain a summary of completion of lower-division General Education units (IGETC or CSU GE Breadth). This is often referred to as a GE certification worksheet. SF State does not require delivery of this certification to Admissions, but students should retain this document for verifying degree progress after transfer.

Credit for Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, or College-Level Examination Program courses: AP/IB/CLEP credit is not automatically transferred from the previous institution. Units are transferred only when an official score report is delivered to SF State. Credit is based on the academic year during which exams were taken. Refer to the University Bulletin in effect during the year of AP/IB/CLEP examination(s) for details regarding the award of credit for AP/IB/CLEP.

Students pursuing majors in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) disciplines often defer 6-9 units of lower-division General Education in Areas C and D until after transfer to focus on preparation courses for the major. This advice does not apply to students pursuing associate degree completion before transfer.

TRANSFERRING FROM INSTITUTIONS OTHER THAN CCCS OR CSUS

Review SF State's lower-division General Education requirements. Note that, as described below, the four basic skills courses required for admission meet GE Areas 1A/A2, 1B/A3, 1C/A1, and 2/B4 in the SF State GE pattern. Courses that fulfill the remaining areas of SF State’s lower-division GE pattern are available at most two-year and four-year colleges and universities.

Of the four required basic skills courses, a course in critical thinking (1B/A3) may not be widely offered outside the CCC and CSU systems. Students should attempt to identify and take an appropriate course no later than the term of application to the CSU. To review more information about the 1B/A3 requirement, please visit
bulletin.sfsu.edu/undergraduate-education/general-education/lower-division/#AAEL
.

Waiting until after transfer to take a single course at SF State that meets both US and CA/local government requirements may be an appropriate option, particularly if transferring from outside of California.