WELCOME TO LAES!

The Liberal Arts and Engineering Studies (LAES) degree is jointly offered by the colleges of Liberal Arts and Engineering and allows students to take coursework from both.

LAES CLUB

The LAES Club brings together students interested in creative tech, collaborating on interdisciplinary projects & networking with industry members.

EXPRESSIVE TECHNOLOGY STUDIOS

The Jack and Felicia Cashin Expressive Technology Studios (ETS) is an interdisciplinary space dedicated to developing the educational intersection between technology, humanity and the arts.

ABOUT LAES

The College of Liberal Arts and the College of Engineering jointly offer the B.S. degree program in Liberal Arts and Engineering Studies (LAES). The program prepares students for innovative careers in emerging professional fields that combine skills and interests in the arts, technology, and culture.

ADVISING

Understand your responsibilities as a LAES Student. Get help setting up advising appointments, & learn how to declare or revise your concentration here.

Get Help

LAES CLUB

The LAES Club exists to bring together students interested in creative technologies, to collaborate on interdisciplinary projects and learn about and network with members of the industry.

About the Club

GIVE TO LAES

Please help LAES continue to provide quality interdisciplinary education for our students.

Your gifts will help foster this unique program and extend its impact by enabling more students to collaborate with each other and faculty, in innovative ways, in the area of expressive and emerging technologies.

Support LAES

PROJECT SHOWCASE

The LAES 301 and LAES 302 courses allow LAES students to engage in innovative hands-on work for real-life projects in a team setting.

View Projects

EXPRESSIVE TECHNOLOGY STUDIOS

Housed in the William and Linda Frost Center for Research and Innovation, the Expressive Technology Studios is an interdisciplinary space that brings together technology with the liberal arts.

Visit our Page