• HOME
• courses
• Environmental Systems

ENVIRONMENTAL SYSTEMS

[
program
|
faculty
]

All courses, faculty listings, and curricular and degree requirements described herein are subject to change or deletion without notice.

COURSES

For course descriptions not found in the
UC San Diego General Catalog 2025–26
, please contact the department for more information.

Many of the courses that are used to fulfill the requirements of the environmental systems major are offered by other departments and programs. Most of these courses are offered on a regular basis. Students should consult the Schedule of Classes or contact the Environmental Systems office in order to obtain current information. The courses below are offered directly through the Environmental Systems Program.

LOWER DIVISION

ESYS 10. Introduction to Environmental Systems (4)

This course explores the interdisciplinary character of environmental issues through an examination of a particular topic (climate change, for example) from numerous disciplinary perspectives (e.g., biology, chemistry, physics, political science, and economics).
Prerequisites:
none.

ESYS 87. First-year Seminar (1)

The First-year Seminar Program is designed to provide new students with the opportunity to explore an intellectual topic with a faculty member in a small seminar setting. First-year seminars can be offered in all campus departments and undergraduate college, and topics vary from quarter to quarter. Enrollment is limited to fifteen to twenty students with preference given to entering first-year students. (P/NP grades only)

ESYS 90. Perspectives on Environmental Issues (1)

Provides an introduction to environmental systems. Faculty members from departments in the natural sciences, geosciences, and social sciences will offer perspectives in these areas.

UPPER DIVISION

ESYS 101. Environmental Biology (4)

This course surveys biochemical and physiological processes governing the relationship between organisms and their environments, such as those involved in element cycling and cellular homeostasis. The course introduces biological perspectives on human activities ranging from antibiotic use to genetic engineering.
Prerequisites:
BILD 1 or 2 or 3 or equivalent, or consent of instructor.

ESYS 102. The Solid and Fluid Earth (4)

Earth’s dynamic physical systems interact in complex ways with profound impact on our environment. Processes such as volcanism and weathering enable geochemical exchange between solid and fluid (ocean and atmosphere) systems. Sea level and climate changes interface with tectonic processes.
Prerequisites:
MATH 10A or MATH 20A, CHEM 6A, PHYS 1A or 2A, or consent of instructor.

ESYS 103. Environmental Challenges: Science and Solutions (4)

This course explores the impacts of human, social, economic, and industrial activity on the environment. It highlights the central roles in ensuring sustainable development played by market forces, technological innovation, and government regulation on local, national, and global scales.
Prerequisites:
junior or senior standing or consent of instructor.

ESYS 187A. Senior Internship Project I (4)

The first quarter of the three-quarter senior project sequence. In this course, the student works in a self-selected internship (off-campus, research project or on-campus project), focused on an interdisciplinary environmental problem or research topic.
Prerequisites:
ESYS 103.

ESYS 187B. Senior Internship Project II (4)

This is the second quarter of the three-quarter senior project sequence. In this course, the student continues work on their self-selected internship (off-campus, research project or on-campus project), focused around an interdisciplinary environmental problem or research topic. A final evaluation of their internship signed by the student, an internship supervisor, and a faculty mentor is required at the end of the course.
Prerequisites
:
ESYS 187A.

ESYS 187C. Environmental Systems Senior Seminar (4)

This is the third quarter of the three-quarter senior project sequence. This seminar provides a venue for students to develop a written report and a poster on their internship results. Students present their posters in the ESYS symposium at the end of the quarter.
Prerequisites
:
ESYS 187B.

ESYS 199. Independent Study (2–4)

Individually guided readings or projects in the area of environmental systems.