HOW MUCH DOES UCR COST?

At UCR, 85% of UCR undergraduate students who applied for aid were awarded aid in the form of need-based
scholarships,
grants
, and/or
federal loans
. 97% of undergraduate students who were awarded aid received need-based scholarships and/or grants.

See how much UCR costs
and then use the
UCR Net Price Calculator
to get a more accurate estimate of your cost
plus
the financial aid you could receive at UCR.

Federal School Code:
001316

FOLLOW US ON YOUTUBE

FOLLOw US ON INSTAGRAM

Support for Students Affected by the SoCal Fires
We are committed to supporting our students affected by the recent Southern California fires. To assist students affected by this emergency, we are offering financial aid support. If you have incurred expenses related to the fires, we encourage you to reach out to our office to discuss potential options.

Resources for Undocumented Students
We understand that applying for financial aid can raise privacy concerns for undocumented students and their families. To address these concerns, we encourage you to
review the latest information issued by the University of California
that was reviewed by UC Legal – Office of the General Counsel and UC Immigrant Legal Services.

Mixed-status families can find additional resources through the
California Student Aid Commission
.

IMPORTANT DATES

FINANCIAL AID TIPS

• File Your Financial Aid Application Every Year File your FAFSA or Dream Act Application every year (even if you don't think you'll qualify)! You have nothing to lose and everything to gain.
File your FAFSA or Dream Act Application every year (even if you don't think you'll qualify)! You have nothing to lose and everything to gain.

• Finding Scholarships UCR students have access to Scholarship Universe – a scholarship matching tool that matches you to scholarships that best suit you! The more questions you answer in your personalized portal, the more scholarships you're matched with. It takes all of the searching out of your scholarship search! UCR students can log in to ucr.scholarshipuniverse.com using their UCR NetID and password.
UCR students have access to Scholarship Universe – a scholarship matching tool that matches you to scholarships that best suit you!

The more questions you answer in your personalized portal, the more scholarships you're matched with. It takes all of the searching out of your scholarship search!

UCR students can log in to
ucr.scholarshipuniverse.com
using their UCR NetID and password.

• Sending Your Outside Scholarship Check If you are sending the Financial Aid Office your outside scholarship check, please ensure that the scholarship check has the Student Identification number (SID) located on the check, the student's name, and made payable to REGENTS UC. Please mail your scholarship checks to the UCR Student Business Services office at: UCR Main Cashiers Office 900 University Avenue Student Services Bldg, Rm 1111 Riverside, CA 92521 Alternatively, you may drop off scholarship checks using the Cashier's Drop Box located on the east side of the Student Services Building.
If you are sending the Financial Aid Office your outside scholarship check, please ensure that the scholarship check has the Student Identification number (SID) located on the check, the student's name, and made payable to REGENTS UC.

Please mail your scholarship checks to the
UCR Student Business Services
office at:

UCR Main Cashiers Office 900 University Avenue Student Services Bldg, Rm 1111 Riverside, CA 92521

Alternatively, you may drop off scholarship checks using the Cashier's Drop Box located on the east side of the Student Services Building.

• Summer Aid In order to be offered a summer financial aid award, you must: Submit a FAFSA or CADAA. Submit all documents required to complete your financial aid application. Enroll in a minimum of 6 units for Summer Sessions. Have a cumulative grade point average of 2.00 or above. Summer financial aid offers are prepared and emailed to students who have met the requirements in late May. If you are an undergraduate student, you may be eligible for grant funds. The Summer Financial Aid Estimator will be available on April 15 on Summer Sessions to calculate the amount of summer financial aid you may qualify to receive in grant aid.
In order to be offered a summer financial aid award, you must:

• Submit a FAFSA or CADAA.
• Submit all documents required to complete your financial aid application.
• Enroll in a minimum of 6 units for Summer Sessions.
• Have a cumulative grade point average of 2.00 or above.
Summer financial aid offers are prepared and emailed to students who have met the requirements in late May.

If you are an undergraduate student, you may be eligible for grant funds.
The Summer Financial Aid Estimator
will be available on
April 15
on
Summer Sessions
to calculate the amount of summer financial aid you may qualify to receive in grant aid.

• Loan Exiting Steps for Seniors 12 Tips to Pave the Way for a Graceful Exit
12 Tips to Pave the Way for a Graceful Exit

QUICK ANSWER GUIDE

• Important dates and deadlines for the academic year
• If your financial aid award is not finalized, you will need to make alternative Payment Arrangements .
• Monitor your status on R’Web for any requirements that may need to be complete by clicking on the homepage.
• Federal Loans – if you recently completed a Master Promissory Note and /or Entrance Counseling please allow 5 business days for the loan to be ready to disburse.
Visit the Student Business Services website for information about:

• Scholarship Checks : Mail the scholarship check made payable to REGENTS UC with your SID on the check to UCR Main Cashiers Office 900 University Ave Student Services Bldg Rm 1111 Riverside, CA 92521. Alternatively, you may drop off scholarship checks using the Cashier's Drop Box located on the east side of the Student Services Building.
• How to make Payment Arrangements .
• Click here to review quarterly disbursements and refund dates .
• Direct Deposit allows 2-3 business days for the funds to show in your bank account.
• Refund checks will be mailed to the local address on file
• Review “Student Account Online,” “Dynamic Bill” in R’Web for your refund amount.
• Your current billing statement – Check your “Student Account Online” via R’Web .
• Completing Loan Requirements Promissory Notes/Entrance Counseling .
• Exit Counseling (All Loans). Complete the Exit Counseling requirement if you received a Direct Stafford Loan, a Direct Grad PLUS Loan or a TEACH grant during your attendance at UCR. For all other loans/scholarships: complete the Exit Counseling requirement .
Quick tutorials on many of our processes can be found
on
our Instagram Page
.

FASTER THAN PHONE: FAQ

How do I apply? What are the deadlines? Who is my financial aid counselor?
Get answers.

FAQs

SIGNIFICANT LOSS OF INCOME

If your family has experienced a significant loss of income, we can help. Learn more and contact us.

MONEY EMERGENcy solutions

REQUEST A WORKSHOP

We offer classroom presentations, workshops and hands-on support. Let us show your group how to apply for financial aid, maintain it, and learn general financial literacy.

ReQUEST FORM