SOCIAL WORK

The Department of Social Work at Mount Saint Mary’s University offers a core Bachelor of Science in Social Work degree along with a minor degree program. No matter what your focus is, the Mount has a social work degree program that fits your life.

Advocating and caring for the most vulnerable in our society is the driving force behind social work. Social work is a highly rewarding, client-centered profession with a strong focus on advocacy, assuring that services and resources needed by clients are provided to them. Social workers provide counseling; crisis intervention; diagnosis, evaluation and assessment of a client's status and needs; and resource referral. Social workers serve in a variety of settings providing either direct care or acting as referral agents for clients. Service areas include substance abuse rehabilitation, healthcare, housing, eldercare, adoption services, foster care and grief counseling.

Social workers serve in city, county, state or federal agencies, as well as in nonprofit organizations such as schools, hospitals, mental health centers, corrections facilities and other health and human services settings. Demand for social workers is high and is projected to continue to grow.

BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN SOCIAL WORK

A degree in social work prepares graduates for a rewarding career in social services across a variety of public, private and non-governmental organizations dedicated to helping others. These may include areas such as substance abuse rehabilitation, healthcare, housing, childcare, eldercare, adoption services, foster care, grief counseling and job training.

While many graduates immediately enter the workforce with their Mount degrees, many more continue on to social work graduate studies. Indeed, a high percentage of our alumnae are admitted to some of the most prestigious universities in the field, including Columbia University, New York University, USC, UC Berkeley, UCLA and many more. In addition, Mount alumnae have found fulfilling careers at nonprofit social service agencies, health clinics, Kaiser Permanente, Los Angeles Unified School District and the state of California’s Department of Child and Family Services and Department of Mental Health.

When you choose to pursue a degree in social work, you’ll gain an education focused on social justice and founded on a classical liberal arts education. A cornerstone of our program is to promote and advance social justice and human rights understanding and advocacy. Our courses infuse human rights education and incorporate experiential learning, where you’ll go into the real world as part of your curriculum. Your education will also include a full-year internship at places like nonprofit social services organizations and government agencies.

Our goal is to ensure our students learn to advocate for their communities and gain the knowledge and experience necessary to become change agents for the world of tomorrow.

We’re seeking students who share in our mission to help others and thereby help change our society to a more just place. We encourage you to contact us to explore our program and learn more about your career options when you earn your degree in Social Work from Mount Saint Mary’s University.

HEAR FROM OUR ALUMS

COURSE HIGHLIGHTS

SW 129: PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT FOR SOCIAL WORK PRACTICE

This course provides students with an opportunity to learn and develop the necessary skills to engage in the preliminary stages of professional development as it relates to the field of social welfare. This course involves thoughtful self-assessment; addresses the social, economic and personal conditions affecting the decision-making process; and incorporate strategies aimed toward the development of a personalized plan.

SW 111: SOCIAL WELFARE POLICY

Students examine social welfare policies at the federal, state and local levels that form the context of direct practice. Students will analyze social welfare legislation and programs past and present. In addition, students will review and discuss social work roles in policy development, analysis and implementation.

SW 126: CASE MANAGEMENT AND INTAKE ASSESSMENT FOR SOCIAL WORKERS

This course assists students in developing skills associated with effective case management in a social service setting. The case management process is traced from the intake interview to termination of services, with in-depth attention given to the three phases of case management: assessment, planning and implementation.

The Department of Social Work at Mount Saint Mary's University, Los Angeles is currently in pre-candidacy for accreditation by the Council on Social Work Education’s (CSWE) Board of Accreditation (BOA).

Students that are admitted to pre-candidate programs in the fall (or later) of the academic year in which the program is granted candidacy status will be retroactively recognized as graduates from a CSWE-BOA accredited program as long as the program attains initial accreditation.

Review our program’s pre-candidacy status in CSWE’s Directory of Accredited Programs
. For more information about social work accreditation,
contact CSWE’s Department of Social Work Accreditation by email
.