At CalArts, we’re dedicated to supporting our students throughout their educational journey. The Office of Financial Aid is here to offer assistance, resources, and information to both current and prospective students, making the process easier and more accessible.

We aim to help you reach your educational goals by focusing on financial strategies that promote access, affordability, and success—both during your time at CalArts and beyond. Financial aid comes from a variety of sources, including private, institutional, state, and federal funds, all meant to help cover the costs of attending college.

IMPORTANT DATES TO REMEMBER

Financial Aid Basics webinar sessions coming soon.

Accepted Student Event - April 11, 2026

DESIGNATE INFORMATION ACCESS

Students can now designate one or more individuals as authorized parties to have access to their protected information on Self-Service; this includes financial aid, student accounts and registration information.
Learn more and set up Proxy access
.

ESTIMATED COST OF EDUCATION

CalArts provides an
estimated cost of education
on an annual basis which breaks down the direct charges- such as tuition, fees and housing and food for students who live on campus and indirect charges.

FINANCIAL LITERACY RESOURCES

The Office of Financial Aid is dedicated to helping our students learn more about finances to help students understand their personal finances and make informed decisions.  Please visit our
Financial Literacy Resources
page to access information and resources on budgeting, saving, credit and more financial literacy topics.

You can also take a brief
Financial Wellness
survey to let us know what additional topics and resources are of interest to you.

PAYMENT OPTIONS

To settle your student account and register, complete the required agreements and review your tuition statement via
Self-Service
.
Multiple payment options are available
.

If you have questions regarding payments or billing, please contact the Bursar at
accounting@calarts.edu
or 661-253-7847.

CONTACT FINANCIAL AID

Request an appointment

Office hours
Spring and fall semesters: Monday–Friday from 9 am–5 pm
Summer: Monday–Thursday from 9 am–5 pm

Email:
finaid@calarts.edu
Phone number:
661-253-7869 or 800-443-0480
Room number:
F201 (next to the Cashier’s Window)