REQUIREMENTS

If you've landed here, you're considering transferring to the University of California, Merced. We love that!

Transferring to UC Merced
means stepping into a UC experience where opportunity isn’t crowded out. As a transfer, you can jump into research early, build real relationships with faculty, and join a close-knit campus that’s deeply supportive of first-generation students, all while benefiting from strong financial aid and clear pathways to graduation.

The university considers you a transfer applicant if you enrolled in a regular session at another college or university, except while in high school or summer session immediately following high school. While the University of California gives California community college students first priority over other transfer applicants, the University also accepts those from four-year institutions. In addition, it's possible to transfer from one UC campus to another.

To be considered for admission to UC Merced as a transfer student, you must fulfill either the junior-level or lower division transfer requirements. In addition, you will be required to complete the preparation requirements for your intended major.

Former UC Merced students should visit the
UC Merced Academic Reentry website
for information on returning to UC Merced.

JUNIOR-LEVEL TRANSFER

UNITS AND GPA

• Complete 60 semester (90 quarter) units of UC-transferable college credit
• Earn a minimum grade point average of 2.40 (nonresident: 2.80) in UC-transferable courses
• Take no more than 14 semester (21 quarter) units as Pass/Not Pass

COURSE REQUIREMENTS/SUBJECT REQUIREMENTS

Complete the following seven-course pattern, earning a grade of C or better in each course:

• Two transferable English composition courses
• One transferable mathematical concepts and quantitative reasoning course that has a published prerequisite of intermediate algebra
• Four transferable courses chosen from at least two of the following areas: Arts and Humanities, Behavioral and Social Sciences, Biological and Physical Sciences

MAJOR SELECTION CRITERIA

All majors in the schools of Engineering, Natural Science, and Social Sciences Humanities and Arts are required to complete specific lower division major preparation to be considered for admission. Pay close attention to the required major GPA as it can differ for each school.

Visit the
major selection criteria page
to find out the requirements for your intended major.

GENERAL EDUCATION

While general education is not required for admission, it can help speed up your time to graduation once you transfer to UC Merced. We highly recommend reviewing the
Transfer Students: Satisfying General Education
page in the catalog for a more extensive explanation of the requirements.

The School of Engineering
,
School of Natural Science
and
School of Social Sciences, Humanities, and Arts
provides
campus guidance
about IGETC, please review carefully according to your Major. Also, please visit
Assist.org
to find “Major Agreements” from your California Community College to UC Merced which details IGETC recommendations by major.

EARLY TRANSFER OPPORTUNITY PATHWAYS TO SUCCESS

Undeclared Pathway - 15 units or less:
Students who are eligible via this pathway:

• Have taken 15 units or less at a community college (or other university) with a minimum GPA of 2.0 for California residents or 2.8 for non-residents
• Are eligible from high school, meaning they earned a high school GPA of 3.0 for California residents or 3.4 for non-residents, and met a-g requirements.
Undeclared Pathway - 16-29 units:
Students who are eligible via this pathway:

• Have taken 16-29 units at a community college (or other university) with a minimum GPA of 2.5 for residents or 2.8 for non-residents
• Completed their first transferable English composition course and mathematical reasoning and concepts and quantitative reasoning requirement, or they are in progress or planned
• Are eligible from high school, meaning they earned a high school GPA of 3.0 for California residents or 3.4 for non-residents, and met a-g requirements.
Major Pathway:
Students who are eligible via this pathway:

• Have met requirements for the major
• Are eligible from high school, meaning they earned a high school GPA of 3.0 for California residents or 3.4 for non-residents, and met a-g requirements.
*Note: If you did not complete your a-g course requirements you can remedy the missing requirements by:

Completing with a grade of C or higher one transferable college course (3 semester or 4-5 quarter units) for each missing high school subject

Completing with a grade of C or higher 12 semester (18 quarter) units of transferable college coursework in case not all tests have been taken.

For more information about the subject, scholarship and examination requirements, visit the
University of California Admissions website
.

You are also welcome to
contact a transfer admission officer
if you have further questions.

NOTE ABOUT ASSOCIATE DEGREES FOR TRANSFER (ADT)

If you’re working toward an ADT, you should choose courses that align with the requirements at the UC campuses you’re interested in. Treat the ADT as your early road map to UC. You can use ASSIST or our major preparation paths to guide you in choosing the right courses. Although earning an ADT does not guarantee admission to UC, some campuses consider it in the comprehensive review process.

HELPFUL PREPARATION RESOURCES

Use Assist.org

ASSIST
provides the most accurate and up-to-date information to help you transfer from a community college to a four-year university. It helps you find which courses transfer to UC Merced.

CREATE A TRANSFER ADMISSION PLANNER (TAP)

Visit
uctap.universityofcalifornia.edu
to create an account and start your Transfer Admission Planner. Your TAP will be the first step in applying to the University of California. It will help you to determine if your coursework is UC transferable, what kind of credit you might receive for AP or IB exams, and your UC GPA. The information you indicate in your TAP also will be transferred to the UC application when you are ready to apply.

UC TRANSFER PATHWAYS

If you're starting out at a California community college and know which major you want to study but haven't decided which UC campuses to apply to, there is a simple way to keep your options open as you prepare for your major. Visit
UC Transfer Pathways
.

CONTACT YOUR TRANSFER CENTER

Utilize the resources close to you. Transfer Centers and counselors at your campus can help you find the resources you need.

CONTACT A UC MERCED TRANSFER ADMISSIONS OFFICER

We are here to help you. Sign up for our mailing list for updates or
contact us directly
for answers to your individual questions.

TRANSFER CREDIT POLICY

View the
Transfer Credit Policy
(pdf) for more information.