MUSIC

Music occupies a prominent place at Mount Saint Mary’s University. Established in 1925, our Department of Music builds on a nearly century-long tradition of excellence, offering emphases in music performance, music history, music education, music industry, pre-music therapy and the opportunity to study in Los Angeles with some of our city’s finest musicians.

Small class sizes, world class performance venues and access to a rich variety of masterclasses and internships makes MSMU an ideal place to follow your musical passion.

EXPLORE THE MUSIC PROGRAM

• Undergraduate programs ﻿ Mount Saint Mary’s University offers students the opportunity to earn a Bachelor of Arts or a minor in Music. Our degree program offers emphases in Music Education, Music Performance, Music Industry, Music History and Pre-Music Therapy.

UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMS
﻿

Mount Saint Mary’s University offers students the opportunity to earn a Bachelor of Arts or a minor in Music. Our degree program offers emphases in Music Education, Music Performance, Music Industry, Music History and Pre-Music Therapy.

• Scholarships ﻿ MSMU gives Music majors the opportunity to earn full-tuition scholarships each year. Other generous music scholarships are available to all Mount students, regardless of their major.

SCHOLARSHIPS
﻿

MSMU gives Music majors the opportunity to earn full-tuition scholarships each year. Other generous music scholarships are available to all Mount students, regardless of their major.

• Admission requirements ﻿ Learn more about requirements, applications and the audition process to be considered for admission to the Music degree program at Mount Saint Mary’s University.

ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS
﻿

Learn more about requirements, applications and the audition process to be considered for admission to the Music degree program at Mount Saint Mary’s University.

• Ensembles ﻿ The Music Department offers students a number of creative ways to express their love for music. Discover the many opportunities at MSMU for making music

ENSEMBLES
﻿

The Music Department offers students a number of creative ways to express their love for music. Discover the many opportunities at MSMU for making music

• High School Ensemble Competition ﻿ MSMU Music introduces the Solo & Chamber Ensemble High School Music Competition! Participants must submit an audition video and application for adjudication by Bridge to Everywhere, MSMU’s ensemble in residence.

HIGH SCHOOL ENSEMBLE COMPETITION
﻿

MSMU Music introduces the Solo & Chamber Ensemble High School Music Competition! Participants must submit an audition video and application for adjudication by Bridge to Everywhere, MSMU’s ensemble in residence.

• Opportunities for non-music majors ﻿ Interested in joining an ensemble, or enrolling in a music class? Take advantage of the many opportunities available to non-music majors within the Music department!

OPPORTUNITIES FOR NON-MUSIC MAJORS
﻿

Interested in joining an ensemble, or enrolling in a music class? Take advantage of the many opportunities available to non-music majors within the Music department!