BACHELOR OF ARTS ASIAN STUDIES

Immerse yourself in the Bachelor of Arts in Asian Studies (B.A. Asian Studies) program at the University of Redlands and gain a comprehensive understanding of Asia's rich cultural diversity and contemporary issues. In this program, you'll develop critical thinking skills, language proficiency, and in-depth knowledge to analyze and appreciate Asian cultures, societies, and economies.

DEGREES OFFERED

Bachelor of Arts

PROGRAM TYPES

Undergraduate, Major, Minor

MODE OF STUDY

On Campus

DEPARTMENT

SCHOOL / COLLEGE

WHAT IS AN ASIAN STUDIES DEGREE?

Students in the B.A. in Asian Studies degree program dive into Asian cultures, languages, history, and contemporary issues to explore a variety of topics and gain a multidisciplinary understanding of the region. The B.A. in Asian Studies degree prepares you to pursue career paths in international relations, education, research, and more.

WHY SHOULD YOU MAJOR IN ASIAN STUDIES AT REDLANDS?

In the B.A. in Asian Studies program, you'll study languages, humanities, and the social sciences. The interdisciplinary nature of the program at Redlands will prepare you for dynamic career paths, including international relations, education, nonprofit work, or research. You will learn to speak, read, and write an Asian language at an intermediate level of proficiency or higher, and dive into cultural exploration through a required semester abroad in a relevant Asian country.

University of Redlands offers
short- and long-term study-away programs
to help students gain experiential learning and global perspectives. We have connections to many overseas universities, including the
Chinese University of Hong Kong
,
Waseda University
, and
Nanzan University
, among others.

CLASSES YOU'LL TAKE

Asian Studies (AST) offers an interdisciplinary major, which allows students to combine different types of courses from the list of Asian Studies and Asian Studies cross-listed courses. Asian Studies major requirements consist of

• 1) completion of 14 courses of 3–4 credits each, including a Senior Capstone project,
• 2) Asian language proficiency at the second-year completion level, and
• 3) a study abroad experience in Asia.
*The following courses are subject to change. Please check the latest
university catalog
for all coursework information, program requirements, and learning outcomes.

BACHELOR OF ARTS

COURSEWORK REQUIREMENT

Students must take 14 AST and/or AST cross-listed courses of 3–4 credits each and a Senior Capstone.

The 14 required AST and/or AST cross-listed courses are subject to the following restrictions:

• At least eight major courses must be AST-designated courses taken at the University of Redlands (including on-campus courses and travel courses).
• At least five major courses must be at the 300-400 levels (including 300-400 level language courses), and the student must take course from at least two disciplines other than language study.
• A Maximum of eight Asian language courses may be used towards the 14 total required courses.
• A First-Year Seminar that has significant Asian content and is taught by an Asian Studies Advisory Committee faculty member may be included in major coursework.
• Majors may petition to change any of the above restrictions, subject to approval by the Asian Studies Program.
For the Senior Capstone, students should contact an AST advisor at the end of the third year to choose between the two options described below. Detailed guidelines for the Senior Capstone are available through an AST advisor.

Option A) Senior Project—Conducted during the last semester at the University, the senior project is intended to showcase the student’s accomplishment as an AST major. Students may choose, in consultation with an AST advisor, to pursue a semester-long research project, portfolio, or other significant project as the culminating experience as an AST major. The project is reviewed by a committee, which consists of three AST and/or AST Advisory Committee faculty. Required: one semester of 400-level Directed Study of 4 credits.

Option B) Honor’s Thesis—This option is recommended for outstanding majors who are highly motivated in their academic work. It requires a major research undertaking conducted through both semesters of the senior year. The thesis is submitted to the committee, which consists of three AST and/or AST Advisory Committee faculty, and considered for departmental honors. To be eligible for Asian Studies honors, students must have at least a 3.45 cumulative GPA in AST major courses. Required: one semester of 400-level Directed Study of 4 credits. Honors students may enroll in up to 8 credits of such directed studies.

LANGUAGE REQUIREMENT

Majors must demonstrate proficiency in an Asian language at the second-year completion level. Currently, the Asian Studies Program offers two language programs: Chinese and Japanese. Students who wish to pursue another Asian language may do so, subject to approval by the AST Advisory Committee including advanced approval of how the proficiency requirement will be fulfilled.

STUDY ABROAD REQUIREMENT

Study abroad in an Asian location is required. Relevant courses from study abroad may be counted toward AST coursework, subject to the Coursework Requirement restrictions previously stated.

ADVANCED PLACEMENT IN CHINESE AND JAPANESE

Students who score a three on the Advanced Placement Test receive 4 credits; those who score a four or five receive 8 credits. The department will determine language placement.

WHY SHOULD YOU MINOR IN ASIAN STUDIES AT REDLANDS?

In the B.A. in Asian Studies program, you'll study languages, humanities, and the social sciences. The interdisciplinary nature of the program at Redlands will prepare you for dynamic career paths, including international relations, education, nonprofit work, or research.

THE MINOR REQUIRES COMPLETION OF:

• At least one year in Chinese or Japanese language study consisting of two courses.
• Six courses from the AST and AST Cross-listed course list. Of the six courses, at least one must be taken at the 300 or 400 level, and the student must take courses from at least two disciplines other than language study.
Early Action 1: November 1
Early Action 2: December 1
Regular Decision: January 15*

FIND US ON CAMPUS

Hall of Letters

WHAT YOU'LL LEARN

WHAT YOU'LL LEARN

GRADUATES PURSUE CAREERS IN

GRADUATES PURSUE CAREERS IN

DEPARTMENT OF ASIAN STUDIES

The Department of Asian Studies emphasizes hands-on learning and close interaction between students and faculty. Our faculty blend academic expertise with real-world experience, providing dedicated mentorship in coursework, research, and career development. Explore our program, resources, and faculty to learn more.

THE CORE FOUR FRAMEWORK

At Redlands, our students’ success is at the heart of everything we do. We offer experiential learning opportunities, but our Core Four initiative takes that commitment to a deeper, intentional level. More than a set of experiences, the Core Four is a framework for transformation. Learn more about how students can prepare for their academic journey.

WANT TO KNOW MORE?

Get in touch with our admissions team.