THEATRE

UPCOMING PRODUCTION!

see full season here

Theatre for Young Audiences Presents
A Year With Frog and Toad
book & lyrics by Willie Reale; music by Robert Reale
based on the book by Arnold Lobel
directed by Amy Ressler

This whimsical show follows two great friends – the cheerful, popular Frog and the
rather grumpy Toad – through four fun-filled seasons. Waking from hibernation in the
Spring, Frog and Toad plant gardens, swim, rake leaves, go sledding and learn life
lessons along the way. The two best friends celebrate and rejoice in the differences
that make them unique and special.

Saturday April 18 at 10am & 1pm
(and Free Pop-Up Children's Festival, see below!)
Sunday April 19 at 1pm
Doré Theatre

$5 General Admission
Children 12 and under are free!
To buy tickets online, go to
Eventbrite
.
Tickets also available at the box office which opens one hour before each show.

Free POP-UP Children's Festival!
Saturday April 18 from 11am-1pm (between the two shows)
Fun activities! Crafts! Explorations related to themes of the play.
Stay after the morning show, or come early for the afternoon show and have a hoppin'
good time!

The Theatre Program is part of CSUB's
Music & Theatre Department
. To check out the Music Program, go to
https://www.csub.edu/music
.

We are in the
College of Arts & Humanities
. To check out the school website, go to
https://www.csub.edu/ah
.

"Theatre works beautifully in conjunction with my English major. I am drawn to the
exciting classes, productions, faculty, and opportunities available. Here, you get
a chance to perform in main-stage productions, work with talented faculty that know
the business, and get opportunities to not only grow as an actor, but as a designer,
director, and person. Choosing to major in Theatre at CSUB has made all the difference
in my undergraduate career and I wouldn't change a thing— except maybe deciding to
double major sooner!"

—
Taylor Clark, Class of 2020

"Studying at the CSUB Theatre Department allowed me to experiment with projects and
roles that shaped the actor I am today. They gave me space and tools to create art
—regardless of size and scope — always encouraging creativity, spontaneity and hard
work. I was lucky to have what I did in the theatre program at CSUB and continually
draw on my time there for inspiration."

—Jeff Lepine, Artistic Director of The Peoples Improv Theater, NYC

"CSUB Theatre cultivates artists as they take responsibility for and initiative in
their craft. It offers support and countless possibilities for students who are committed
to growth."

—Miguel Torres, CSU Fullerton MFA Program

SUPPORT THE THEATRE PROGRAM

PURCHASE TICKETS

• Purchase CSUB Theatre tickets on-line by going to: csubmusictheatre.eventbrite.com
• Tickets are sold on-line starting two weeks prior to the event.
Come Study with Us!

CSUB Theatre can offer you the following:

• small class sizes allowing individual attention from dedicated, experienced faculty
• opportunities to perform, design, direct, stage manage
• a lively production program including a Theatre for Young Audiences tour and Theatre
 of New Voices—a new play festival
• training in acting, design, directing, creative dramatics
• a solid foundation in theatre history, literature and script analysis
We take pride in turning out well-rounded members of the theatre community.

Contact Us