OFFICE OF FINANCIAL AID & SCHOLARSHIPS

IMPORTANT UPDATE

The Department of Education is currently implementing updates that have caused a nationwide delay in FAFSA/CADAA processing, with award timelines expected around June or July. Separately, financial aid information may be temporarily unavailable due to system maintenance, and students will be notified once it’s restored.

• There is system maintenance taking place that does not allow financial aid awards to be visible.  As soon as the maintenance is complete, a communication will be sent out with an update.
• There is currently a nationwide delay with the processing of FAFSA/CADAA applications due to updates being made by the Department of Education.  The expected timeline for the end of the delay is June/July.  Our office will continue to communicate updates as they are provided to campuses nationwide.
Yes, you can use our
Net Price Calculator
to get an estimated award.

WELCOME AND THANK YOU FOR VISITING OUR WEBSITE

The Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships at CSUSB provides students and their families with information about financial aid resources and facilitates funding in an accurate and timely manner to assist students in pursuing their educational goals.

Whether receiving our services and support via telephone or in-person, our mission is to ensure your financial aid experience supports you in completing your college degree or teacher certification within a reasonable time frame and with minimal loan indebtedness.  While federal regulations do require that you and (if dependent) your parents contribute towards your college expenses, as professionals, we focus on your financial needs not covered by your expected family contribution(s) and also based on your meeting aid program eligibility requirements.  We strive to maximize your financial aid awards with grants, scholarships, low-interest student loans with easy repayment terms, and other types of resources.

By working together and supporting the quality education you receive at CSUSB, you can stay on track towards completing your undergraduate degree within four years.  Please take the time to review our website information designed to ease your transition into college.  Feel free to seek our help if you have financial aid questions.  We are here for you throughout the year!

LEARN MORE ABOUT WINTER INTERSESSION

To learn more about winter intersession, please visit the
Winter Intersession
webpage.