Access UCSB's Financial Aid Student Portal:
Login My Aid Status (MAS)

HOME

THE UCSB OFFICE OF FINANCIAL AID AND SCHOLARSHIPS HELPS STUDENTS SUCCEED BY OFFERING FINANCIAL SUPPORT AND MAKING THE AID PROCESS CLEAR, ACCESSIBLE, AND SUPPORTIVE.

MY AID STATUS LOGIN

Students can monitor the status of their application, check for any required documents, and view their award letters on
My Aid Status
.
To log into My Aid Status students will need their UCSB Net ID and password. Make sure the correct academic year is selected.

Important Deadline:
The priority deadline for FAFSA and CADAA submission is
March 2nd
.

FINANCIAL AID ANNOUNCEMENTS:

Apply for Scholarships

OPEN NOW! ScholarshipUniverse is a tool for UCSB students that makes finding and applying for scholarships easier than ever before.

Check it out!

Appeals Open for 2026-2027

Unusual Circumstances appeals for dependency status are currently now open. On May 15th, we will open our 2026-2027 Special Circumstances SAI Appeal for loss of income. Cost of Attendance appeals will open up sometime in August. Please go to
Appeals
for more info.

How to Pay for UCSB

Learn tips and advice on how to manage your student account, avoid potential pitfalls, and also find financial resources around campus!

How to Pay for UCSB

"One Big Beautiful Bill"

There is a considerable update to federal aid starting in 2026-2027, including
Pell Grant eligibility
changes and
revised loan limits
if students drop to part-time enrollment. Parent borrowers and Grad students will see the biggest changes. Here's what they need to know:

Graduate Students

• Starting July 1, 2026, the Graduate PLUS loan program will be eliminated unless students qualify for a limited exception
• New $100,000 cap on the amount students can borrow in total (aggregate) for a graduate degree program and a new lifetime federal loan limit of $257,500 for all Federal Direct student loans (excluding Graduate or Parent PLUS loans) borrowed for all levels of study
• New rules require loan amounts to be prorated for less than full-time enrollment
• Repayment plan changes that apply to all borrowers
For more detailed information read this helpful
NASFAA Guide.

Current Parent Borrowers

• New federal borrowing limits cap the Parent PLUS Loan at $20,000 per year and $65,000 in total, but the law allows for a time-limited exception to new loan limits for currently-enrolled students
• Repayment plan changes that apply to all borrowers
For more detailed information read this helpful
NASFAA Guide
.

New Parent Borrowers

• There are new loan limits for the Parent PLUS Loan program: $20,000 per dependent student, per year (annual limit) $65,000 per dependent student, in total (aggregate limit)
• $20,000 per dependent student, per year (annual limit)
• $65,000 per dependent student, in total (aggregate limit)
• Repayment plan changes that apply to all borrowers
For more detailed information read this helpful
NASFAA Guide
.

IMPORTANT DATES & DEADLINES

View Full Calendar

June 12
First Disbursement Date Summer Sessions Beginning in A, C and D

June 30
Last day to file a 2025-2026 FAFSA/CA Dream Act Application

July 3
First Disbursement Date Summer Session E

July 24
First Disbursement Date Sessions Beginning in B, F & G

Our Impact

69%

of UCSB Students Receive Aid

$442M+

Annual Aid Awarded

$21K

Average Undergraduate Grant Award

MISSION STATEMENT

The Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships at the University of California, Santa Barbara provides students with the financial resources and support services necessary to achieve their educational goals. The office is committed to delivering accurate, accessible, responsive, and respectful service to students and their families. It administers federal, state, and university financial aid and scholarship programs in accordance with applicable policies and regulations, while continually striving to be an innovative and service-oriented department.