APPLY TO APU

• Home
• >
• Office of Undergraduate Admissions
• >
• Apply to APU

CONTACT INFORMATION

HOURS

LOCATION

APU welcomes students who are committed to personal, intellectual, and spiritual growth.
Applicants must evidence appreciation for the standards and spirit of the university
and exhibit moral character in harmony with its purpose. The university invites applications
from students who will contribute to, as well as benefit from, the university experience.
In assessing the applicant's potential for success, academic capabilities, as well
as involvement in church, school, and community activities, are reviewed.

The admission and application requirements for
freshman
,
transfer
, and
international
students vary.

MINIMUM ADMISSION STANDARDS

To ensure each incoming student is prepared to succeed at APU, it is recommended that
all applicants to the university meet the following minimums. Meeting the minimums
set forth does not guarantee admission, but does guarantee that an applicant will
be given full consideration. Students who apply for the 2020–21 through 2023–24 school
years may also submit pass/no pass grades
1
from the 2020-21 academic year.

Azusa Pacific University, in accordance with applicable federal and state laws and
university policies, does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin,
sex, age, disability, medical status, or status as a veteran. The university also
prohibits sexual harassment. This nondiscrimination policy covers admission, access,
operation of university programs and activities, and employment. This policy is in
accordance with the following laws, as amended, and their implementing regulations,
to the extent and in the circumstances that they are applicable to the university:
Titles VI and VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964; Title IX of the Educational Amendments
of 1972; the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation
Act of 1973.

The associate vice president of human resources (
http://www.apu.edu/humanresources/
) is the compliance officer, and inquiries concerning undergraduate student issues
related to discrimination should be made to the associate vice president of human
resources at (626) 815-4527. Please refer to the Title IX page on the APU website
(
http://www.apu.edu/titleix/
) for our current Title IX officers.

FRESHMAN MINIMUM STANDARDS

TRANSFER MINIMUM STANDARDS

Note: SAT and ACT test scores are not required for admission. However, applicants
are encouraged to submit either an SAT score or an ACT score, as they may be used
to determine additional academic scholarship awards.

AVERAGE QUALIFICATIONS

The following averages represent the incoming class for the 2016-17 school year.

FRESHMAN AVERAGE QUALIFICATIONS

TRANSFER AVERAGE QUALIFICATIONS

FOOTNOTES

• Pass/no pass grades are acceptable only for general admission to Azusa Pacific University.
 Specific academic programs may require letter grades.
• High school honors have weighted credit in determining the student’s overall GPA.