GNSX Major & Minor Students 2025.

WELCOME TO GENDER AND SEXUALITY STUDIES!

Gender and Sexuality Studies (GNSX), formerly Women's and Gender Studies, is a multidisciplinary field that provides an integrated approach to understanding the social and cultural constructions of gender that shape our diverse experiences. With its roots in social justice movements of the last three decades, the methods and goals of Gender and Sexuality Studies support the University’s mission of education informed by both ethical and intellectual values. In addition to educating undergraduates in traditional classroom environments, the program provides opportunities for civic engagement through internships, support for faculty scholarship on gender issues across the disciplines, and diverse co-curricular programming for the university.

ABOUT OUR PROGRAM

The Department of Gender and Sexuality Studies brings together scholars and scholarship on women and gender, areas that have come to occupy an increasingly important place in a number of disciplines in the last quarter century. Areas of inquiry include the participation of women in social and cultural production; the construction of gender and its role as a constitutive element of social, political, economic, and legal structures; feminist theory; and the development of ideas about femininities, masculinities, and sexualities. Gender is examined as it intersects with class, sexuality, ethnicity, disability, age, nationality, and the like. The Department of Gender and Sexuality Studies provides an integrated, interdisciplinary approach to understanding the social and cultural constructions of gender that shape the experiences of everyone. The curriculum offers a solid foundation in gender and sexuality studies, facilitating graduate study and careers involving gender justice concerns, and preparing students for leadership roles in diverse workplaces and communities. The Department of Gender and Sexuality Studies offers a major and minor.

• Rewriting Race: Justice Sonia Sotomayor and the Power of Dissent Sharmila Lodhia published a paper in Women's Studies: An inter-disciplinary journal ,
Sharmila Lodhia published a paper in
Women's Studies: An inter-disciplinary journal
,

FACULTY & STAFF

• Professor Sharmila Lodhia
• Academic Department Manager Janice Jorgenson 408-554-4461 | St. Joseph's Hall Floor 1
408-554-4461 | St. Joseph's Hall Floor 1

BEYOND THE CLASSROOM

NEWS & EVENTS

• How the REAL Program Helped Camille Follante ’27 Turn Learning Into Action Political science and gender and sexuality studies double major Camille Follante ’27 spent her summer turning classroom questions into real-world action. Supported by SCU’s REAL Program, she worked with a women-led humanitarian organization to challenge dominant narratives and support communities through research and storytelling.
Political science and gender and sexuality studies double major Camille Follante ’27 spent her summer turning classroom questions into real-world action. Supported by SCU’s REAL Program, she worked with a women-led humanitarian organization to challenge dominant narratives and support communities through research and storytelling.

• Recapturing the Magic of Storytelling Through her internship at Tandem, Partners in Early Learning, Stella Cortese ’26 rediscovered the power of storytelling to captivate young minds and address societal issues, inspiring her to create impactful, diverse literature for children.
Through her internship at Tandem, Partners in Early Learning, Stella Cortese ’26 rediscovered the power of storytelling to captivate young minds and address societal issues, inspiring her to create impactful, diverse literature for children.

LIFE AFTER SCU

• An Update from Emma Bario Emma is currently in graduate school
Emma is currently in graduate school

• An Update from Rani Hanstad '17 Rani Hanstad ’17 currently works and volunteers in San Francisco.
Rani Hanstad ’17 currently works and volunteers in San Francisco.

ALUMNA MIRELLE RAZA '15