GLOBAL POLITICS

Thinking about a career in international development, international humanitarian work or foreign service?

The Global Politics major has been developed within the Mount’s social justice framework with a strong basis in
engaging course work, undergraduate research training, and exciting opportunities for high-impact course trips
.

MAJOR IN GLOBAL POLITICS

We hope to challenge you to think deeply about the historical, social, political and environmental contexts that affect us all. Can we understand political struggles through comparisons across countries? Can we predict the rise and fall of democracies? How do we explain the differences in the lives of women and children across the globe? How does a policy decision around clean water in one country affect the rest of the globe? These are just some of the topics discussed in our classes.

Our most popular courses include Health and Human Rights, Terrorism and Political Violence, Women and Development, the Politics of Globalization and Revolutions and Social Movements.

Our graduates are empowered leaders prepared for international jobs in areas such as international development, humanitarian work, public policy, public health and foreign service. The unique design of this major requires a
global learning experience that can be a study abroad semester, an internship abroad, a research experience with one of our Mount faculty or a local internship focused on global issues. Our students have worked in communities across the globe helping to provide access to clean water or helping with after-school programs for children or evaluating access to health services all while working towards an undergraduate degree.

Our faculty-led course trips involving hands-on projects with communities in Mexico, South America, Africa and our MSMU house in France.
Our students graduate with truly unique experiences, and strong research and leadership skills.

CONCENTRATION IN GLOBAL WOMEN'S STUDIES

The concentration in Global Women’s Studies is designed for students interested in exploring the lives of women across culture, region and time. Our courses examine the effects of politics, history and culture on women, as well as the impact of political participation, leadership and protest movements on politics and policy. Our more popular courses include Women and Development, Gender and Latin American Politics and Women and International Security.

MINORS

INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS

The International Relations minor provides students with a deeper understanding of relations between states, a broader understanding of governmental systems outside of the United States, and a deeper appreciation for the impact of globalization on diverse communities. Our minor is a perfect fit for students interested in adding a global component to their studies.
Courses regularly offered include: the Politics of Globalization, International Relations Theory, International Security, North/South Relations, Terrorism and Political Violence, and Health and Human Rights, and Women and Development.

GLOBAL WOMEN’S STUDIES CONCENTRATION

The concentration in Global Women’s Studies is designed for students interested in exploring the lives of women across culture, region and time. Our courses examine the effects of politics, history and culture on women, as well as the impact of political participation, leadership and protest movements on politics and policy. Our more popular courses include Women and Development, Gender and Latin American Politics and Women and International Security.

GLOBAL WOMEN IN STEM AND POLICY

The Global Women in STEM and Policy Undergraduate Research Training Honors Program trains cohorts of undergraduate women to conduct basic and applied research in both the sciences and social sciences, with a focus on global and interdisciplinary approaches. This program reflects the Mount’s mission and strategic plan to empower women, engage in a global environment and increase undergraduate research opportunities.