MUSIC EDUCATION BA

APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS

RESOURCES

UCLA Admissions Requirements:
First Year Applicants
Transfer Applicants
International Applicants

Undergraduate Admissions – Music Education
2520 Schoenberg Music Building
445 Charles E Young Drive East
Los Angeles, CA 90095

Email:
admissions@schoolofmusic.ucla.edu

REQUIRED PRESCREENING AND REPERTOIRE REQUIREMENTS

STEP 1:
UC APPLICATION

Undergraduate first year and junior transfer applicants begin the admissions process by completing the UC Application, which opens on August 1 and can be submitted from October 1 to December 1.

Only applicants who have indicated Music Education as their first choice major for UCLA on the UC Application will be considered for admission to the major. UCLA does not consider alternate majors, nor are you allowed to enter as a double major student.

In order to be eligible for admission, applicants must meet all minimum academic eligibility requirements for admission to the University of California. You can find resources on the left hand side of this page for students of first year, transfer, or international status.

STEP 2:
SCHOOL OF MUSIC SUPPLEMENTAL APPLICATION

In addition to the UC application, applicants the School of Music are also required to submit the school’s supplemental application, which is housed on the Acceptd platform. When applying to the Music Education major, applicants must also select a primary instrument (see below for the full list of instruments). Applicants audition on their primary instrument as part of the application process, and Music Education majors receive individual instruction in their primary instrument and participate in ensembles with their primary instrument. The supplemental application includes the following components:

• Personal statement responses
• Unofficial transcript(s)
• Reference contact information for 2 teachers (preferably from an ensemble instructor or private teacher); please note that this is not a reference letter requirement, and we are just asking for contact information in case we do need to request additional information
• Prescreening videos (all instruments except for Bassoon, Guitar, Harp, Oboe, Organ, and Percussion)
• Performance resume (optional)
The submission deadline for the Supplemental Application is Friday, December 5, 2025 at 11:59pm PST.
Detailed supplemental application information can be found on the Acceptd website.

STEP 3: AUDITIONS

If applicants successfully pass prescreening, they are invited to audition for our studio faculty. You will be notified of whether or not you will proceed in our admissions process in late December. If you are chosen to proceed in our final round audition/interview process, auditions will take place on January 13, 14, 16, 23, 24, 30, and 31, 2026. Specific audition dates vary by studio. If you are chosen to proceed to our final round, you will be notified with the audition date for your specific instrument. Should you have questions ahead of time about specific studio audition dates, please email admissions@schoolofmusic.ucla.edu.

If you are not chosen to proceed in our final round audition/interview process, you will have three options: 1) request that UCLA change your first choice major; 2) withdraw your application completely; or 3) take no action and receive no offer of admission from UCLA. Auditions/interviews occur in late January.

CHANGE OF MAJOR APPLICATION FOR CURRENT UCLA STUDENTS

The Department of Music Performance, Education and Composition only accepts applications from current UCLA students hoping to change into a School of Music major once per year, during Fall quarter. UCLA students cannot change majors to or add a double major in Music Education at any other time or by any other process other than the annual admissions cycle. Admission is contingent not only on completing the same application and audition/interview process outlined for all first year or transfer applicants to the School of Music, but also by demonstrating that the degree can be completed within normative time (4 years for first year students or 2 years for Junior transfer students).

All change of major students are required to submit the
supplemental application via Acceptd
and pay the $87.00 submission fee. As part of the application, you will be asked to upload a proposed degree plan. Current students need not reapply via the UC application, as they are already UCLA students. The deadline for the supplemental application is Friday, December 5, 2025 at 11:59pm PST. As Music Education does prescreen, you will be notified in late December if you are chosen to move forward in the admissions process. If you do not pass prescreening, unfortunately your application has been unsuccessful and you will be unable to change majors/add Music Education as a double major.