GEOLOGY DEPARTMENT

Petrology field trip with Professors Nikki Moore and Jade Star Lackey

In class with Professor Jade Star Lackey

In class with Professor Linda Reinen

In class with Professor Eric Grosfils

Learning in the field with Professor Robert Gaines

Study the Earth, its materials and history, and the processes that shape it—and how those things affect us.

Geology is at the forefront of multiple challenges facing the modern world: climate change, natural hazards, and increasing demands for critical minerals needed for new technologies essential to society.

The field of Earth Sciences is integrative and lies at the intersection of all other natural sciences. Geology students apply chemical, physical and biological principles in order to address questions about interactions among Earth processes that continue to shape the world around us. This hands-on approach is central the department’s
mission
.

To reflect the multitude of problems addressed by Earth Scientists, the Geology department offers
two major tracks of study
and a
minor
:

• The Geology Track focuses on the core areas of the geosciences. Such study provides the basis for assessing numerous scientific and social issues and is designed to prepare you for a variety of career paths in Geoscience. Students following this track are strongly encouraged to take a year of introductory chemistry and physics.
• The Earth System Science Track is intended for students who wish their coursework to emphasize a specialized geoscience theme such as: Environmental Geology, Geochemistry, Geophysics, Ocean Sciences, or Planetary Geology.
In addition, the Geology Tracks of the
Environmental Analysis Major
and the
Public Policy Analysis Major
are available.

Our faculty believes there is no better way to understand the Earth’s geology than to experience it first-hand. Most geology classes take field trips to spectacular geologic settings to augment classroom and laboratory experiences, including day trips to local mountains and the coastal ocean, and longer excursions around California and Utah. The Department also sponsors an annual field trip; past locations include Grand Canyon, Owens Valley, Death Valley, Zion National Park, the Sierra Nevada, and the central California Coast.

Study abroad programs offer opportunities to explore diverse geological settings, and our students are encouraged to attend an approved summer field camp as well.