BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN CIVIL ENGINEERING

UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMS IN ENGINEERING

Freshman applicants should have completed four years of high school mathematics, one year of high school chemistry, and one year of high school physics. Students are also encouraged to include courses in mechanical drawing and computer programming.

Community college transfers should complete the sequence of mathematics, chemistry, physics, and engineering courses listed in freshman and sophomore years under the “sample sequence of courses” at the community college.

CIVIL ENGINEERING

The curriculum provides a broad-based common core of engineering science and the essential civil engineering subjects. The students conclude with 15 units of upper-division electives where the primary emphasis is design, practical applications, and computer solutions in selected areas of civil engineering. Graduates of the civil engineering program are expected to have, within a few years of graduation:

• Established themselves as practicing professionals or engaged in graduate study in civil engineering or a related field.
• Become licensed civil engineers or made appropriate progress toward professional registration.
Students must complete 15 upper-division ENGR units and
ENGR 300
and
ENGR 323
before registering for
ENGR 696
.

Courses are scheduled during the day as well as late afternoon and evening. Other information and assistance in selecting courses can be obtained from a major advisor in the School of Engineering, by calling (415) 338-1174, by emailing
engrasst@sfsu.edu
, or by writing to:

School of Engineering
San Francisco State University
Science and Engineering Innovation Center
1600 Holloway Avenue
San Francisco, CA 94132

PROGRAM LEARNING OUTCOMES

Upon completion of the Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering, a student will be able to demonstrate:

• An ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, science, and mathematics.
• An ability to apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of public health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors.
• An ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences.
• An ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed judgments, which must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and societal contexts.
• An ability to function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives.
• An ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions.
• An ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies.

CIVIL ENGINEERING (B.S.)
– 93 UNITS MINIMUM

• All courses for the major must be completed with a letter grade.
• Grades of C or better are required in MATH 226 , MATH 227 , and PHYS 220 .
• Grades of C- or better are required in PHYS 230 , PHYS 240 , CHEM 115 , CHEM 180 , ENGR 100 , ENGR 102 , ENGR 200 , ENGR 201 , ENGR 235 , ENGR 282 , ENGR 300 , and ENGR 309 .
Grades of C- or better are required in
PHYS 230
,
PHYS 240
,
CHEM 115
,
CHEM 180
,
ENGR 100
,
ENGR 102
,
ENGR 200
,
ENGR 201
,
ENGR 235
,
ENGR 282
,
ENGR 300
, and
ENGR 309
.

GENERAL EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS MET IN THE MAJOR

The requirements below are deemed “met in the major” upon completion of the courses listed (even though the courses and their prerequisites are not approved for GE). This is true whether or not the student completes the major.

• Area 1B (Critical Thinking) is satisfied upon completion of ENGR 205 or ENGR 282 and either ENGR 201 or ENGR 213 .
• Area 5UD (Upper-Division Science) is satisfied upon completion of ENGR 300 , ENGR 302 , and ENGR 304 .

MATH AND SCIENCE LOWER-DIVISION COURSES (30-31 UNITS)

LOWER-DIVISION CIVIL ENGINEERING COURSES (19 UNITS)

UPPER-DIVISION CIVIL ENGINEERING COURSES (29 UNITS)

UPPER-DIVISION ENGINEERING ELECTIVES (15 UNITS)

Choice of upper-division electives must present a clearly identifiable educational objective and ensure that the program requirements in engineering science and design are met by all students. Distribution of credit units among engineering science and design is given in the Advising Guide. A study plan of intended upper-division electives must be approved by the student’s advisor and the program coordinator prior to the seventh semester of the engineering program.

A total of 15 units from the following list of courses is required, subject to the minimum number of units specified for each group. Students with a GPA of at least 3.0 and the required prerequisites may take graduate courses (numbered 800 and above) with the approval of their advisor or the program coordinator.

GENERAL EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS

Note: LD = Lower-Division; UD = Upper-Division.

FIRST-TIME STUDENT ROADMAP (4 YEAR)

The roadmaps presented in this Bulletin are intended as suggested plans of study and do not replace meeting with an advisor. For a more personalized roadmap, please use the
Degree Planner
tool found in your
Student Center
.

Students should use their
Pathway/Category
to determine which roadmap to follow. For directions on how to view your Pathway/Category, visit
how to find your pathway
. Questions? Contact
Gator Smart Start.

First-Time Student Roadmap – QR Pathway 1/2

5 Year First-Time Student Roadmap – QR Pathway 1/2

First-Time Student Roadmap – QR Pathway 3/4

SF STATE SCHOLARS ROADMAP

The San Francisco State Scholars program provides undergraduate students with an accelerated pathway to a graduate degree. Students in this program pursue a bachelor’s and master’s degree simultaneously. This program allows students to earn graduate credit while in their junior and/or senior year, reducing the number of semesters required for completion of a master’s degree.

Civil Engineering BS + MS SF State Scholars Roadmap

GENERAL ADVISING INFORMATION FOR TRANSFER STUDENTS

• Before transfer, complete as many lower-division requirements or electives for this major as possible.
• The following courses are not required for admission but are required for graduation. Students are strongly encouraged to complete these units before transfer; doing so will provide more flexibility in course selection after transfer. a course in U.S. History a course in U.S. & California Government
• a course in U.S. History
• a course in U.S. & California Government
For information about satisfying the requirements described in (1) and (2) above at a California Community College (CCC), please visit
http://www.assist.org
. Check any geographically accessible CCCs; sometimes, options include more than one college. Use ASSIST to determine:

• Which courses at a CCC satisfy any lower-division major requirements for this major;
• Which courses at a CCC satisfy CSU GE, US History, and US & CA Government requirements.
Remedial courses are not transferable and do not apply to the minimum 60 semester units/90 quarter units required for admission.

Additional units for courses that are repeated do not apply to the minimum 60 units required for upper-division transfer (for example, if a course was not passed on the first attempt or was taken to earn a better grade).

Before leaving the last California Community College of attendance, obtain a summary of completion of lower-division General Education units (IGETC or CSU GE Breadth). This is often referred to as a GE certification worksheet. SF State does not require delivery of this certification to Admissions, but students should retain this document for verifying degree progress after transfer.

Credit for Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, or College-Level Examination Program courses: AP/IB/CLEP credit is not automatically transferred from the previous institution. Units are transferred only when an official score report is delivered to SF State. Credit is based on the academic year during which exams were taken. Refer to the University Bulletin in effect during the year of AP/IB/CLEP examination(s) for details regarding the award of credit for AP/IB/CLEP.

Students pursuing majors in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) disciplines often defer 6-9 units of lower-division General Education in Areas C and D until after transfer to focus on preparation courses for the major. This advice does not apply to students pursuing associate degree completion before transfer.

TRANSFERRING FROM INSTITUTIONS OTHER THAN CCCS OR CSUS

Review SF State's lower-division General Education requirements. Note that, as described below, the four basic skills courses required for admission meet GE Areas 1A/A2, 1B/A3, 1C/A1, and 2/B4 in the SF State GE pattern. Courses that fulfill the remaining areas of SF State’s lower-division GE pattern are available at most two-year and four-year colleges and universities.

Of the four required basic skills courses, a course in critical thinking (1B/A3) may not be widely offered outside the CCC and CSU systems. Students should attempt to identify and take an appropriate course no later than the term of application to the CSU. To review more information about the 1B/A3 requirement, please visit
bulletin.sfsu.edu/undergraduate-education/general-education/lower-division/#AAEL
.

Waiting until after transfer to take a single course at SF State that meets both US and CA/local government requirements may be an appropriate option, particularly if transferring from outside of California.