PSYCHOLOGY
DEGREES & PROGRAMS

GAIN A THOROUGH GROUNDING IN THE SCIENTIFIC DISCIPLINE OF PSYCHOLOGY.

Discover how psychological knowledge informs your faith—and how your faith informs your understanding of psychology. Apply your knowledge through research with professors and present your work at academic conferences. Participate in local internships to investigate possible careers. Psychology alumni attend nationally known graduate schools, and local employers recruit them. Graduates have received honors such as a clinical post-doctoral internship at Harvard Medical School and a Ford Foundation Pre-doctoral Minority Fellowship. In 2015, Best Psychology Degrees named our program one of the top 10 Up-and-Coming Undergraduate Psychology Programs in the West.

• Psychology Major Flyer
• Program Review
• Resources for Current Students
All Majors and Programs

PSYCHOLOGY AT WESTMONT

FLOURISHING

Meet the four professors involved with the Global Flourishing Study, a landmark, five-year research initiative by Harvard and Baylor Universities focused on happiness and life satisfaction, physical and mental health, meaning and purpose, character and virtue, close and positive social relationships and financial and material stability: Smaranda Lawrie (psychology), Steve Porter (Martin Institute), Carmel Saad (psychology and diversity leadership), and Blake Kent (sociology), left to right.

ALUMNI STORIES

Valerie Swisher ’22
graduated from Westmont with a B.S. in Psychology. She completed a year long Fulbright Fellowship in Hungary, where she conducted research on mental health literacy and help-seeking behavior among Hungarian primary care providers and patients. She also received a prestigious 5-year National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship to support her in the Clinical Psychology PhD program at Penn State University.

Kaitlin Kinney ’17
graduated from Westmont with a B.S. degree in Psychology on the behavioral neuroscience track. She earned a Master of Science degree from the University of Southern California in neuroimaging and informatics and worked at the Semel Institute for Neuroscience at UCLA. She is currently completing the Neuroscience PhD program at Wake Forest University in North Carolina.

Lydia Grenko ’18
earned a B.S. in Psychology with a concentration in Behavioral Neuroscience. After graduation, she worked in social services at the Samarkand while also serving as the Psychology Department Laboratory Coordinator. Lydia is currently pursuing a doctorate in Clinical Psychology on the geropsychology track at the University of Colorado. Her professional interests include working with family caregivers of those with dementia, and conducting research on sleep interventions in skilled nursing facilities.

CAREER OPPORTUNITIES

Use the following information to help you decide whether you want to pursue a career in psychology, what kind of education you need to attain your career goals, and to what extent--educationally and experientially--you are willing to go in order to achieve those goals.

The 54 Divisions of the American Psychological Association

Exploring these divisions will give you a sense of the breadth of psychology and the many areas in which one can specialize.

Exploring Your Gifts and Your Career Possibilities

Graduate School and Career Options to Consider

APA: Careers

Clinical Psychology

Counseling

School Psychology

Health Psychology

Rehabilitation Psychology

Educational Psychology

Industrial/Organizational Psychology

Marketing

Neuropsychology

Social Psychology

Media Psychology

Military Psychology

Forensic Psychology

See Career Paths on LinkedIn for Graduates Who Studied Psychology at Westmont

FACULTY AND STAFF

Read more

Read more

Read more

Read more

Read more

All Faculty

PSYCHOLOGY TRACKS & REQUIREMENTS

B.A. in Psychology

B.S. in Psychology (General Psychology Track)

B.S. in Psychology (Behavioral Neuroscience Track)

Psychology Minor

• Bachelor of Arts
• Bachelor of Science
• Bachelor of Science, Behavioral Neuroscience Track
• Minor
We don't need perfect love; we need responsive love. And as my young, engaged couple soon learned, we won’t have intimacy without conflict—and that’s okay. We don't need a life without conflict; we need a life with sincere repairs.
Andrea Gurney

Dr. Lawrie, a cultural and positive psychologist, studies wellbeing across socioeconomic status and national cultures. She graduated from Yale and earned three master’s degrees as well as a doctorate in psychological and brain sciences at UC Santa Barbara. Lawrie first taught at Westmont as an adjunct during graduate school, and as of 2025 she is thrilled to join the full-time faculty. “My faith is everything — it informs my research and how I teach,” she says. “It’s a calling to understand God’s creation through science,” she says. “The students here are special, and I’m excited to work with them."

Valerie Swisher, who recently graduated from the department (BS-General Psychology-2022), is completing a year long Fulbright Fellowship in Hungary, where she has been conducting research on mental health literacy and help-seeking behavior among Hungarian primary care providers and patients. She has also been awarded a prestigious 5-year National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship, which will support her as she begins the Clinical Psychology PhD program at Penn State University in Fall 2024.

This four-week online workshop, built on leading research and Dr. Gurney's two and a half decades of clinical experience, was designed to help you refocus, refresh, and strengthen your marriage. Marriage Bootcamp is grounded in what actually works in relationships and will give you new insights that can significantly improve your marriage. You will walk away with a greater understanding of how you "show up" for love and learn skills to communicate effectively and fight fairly. Marriage Bootcamp will give you the boost you need to deepen your friendship and intimacy in your marriage! Act quickly and sign up today!

Dr. Andrea Gurnery's article "Why Marriage 101 Should Be a Required College Course" was published on
Institute for Family Studies (IFS)
. Her article examines how Marriage 101 courses can strengthen relationships, improve young adult well-being, and prepare college students for a successful marriage. Dr. Gurney also outlines the course structure and highlights the objectives of each section.

GLOBAL STUDIES

• Westmont’s Global Health Uganda
• Westmont in Cairo
• Westmont’s England Semester
• Westmont in Asia
• Westmont Psychology Mayterm in Germany and Austria Learn More
Westmont Psychology Mayterm in Germany and Austria

Learn More

TITLE
YOU JUST HAVE TO SEE IT FOR YOURSELF

ENVISION YOUR FUTURE AT WESTMONT’S STUNNING CAMPUS, WHERE THE ENVIRONMENT FUELS CREATIVITY AND PERSONAL GROWTH.