POLITICAL SCIENCE

LEAD CHANGE LOCALLY OR GLOBALLY WITH A POLITICAL SCIENCE DEGREE FROM MOUNT SAINT MARY’S UNIVERSITY

The political science major at Mount Saint Mary’s University, Los Angeles is designed for students passionate about making a difference in government, public policy and global relations. If you’re interested in running for office, shaping the laws that impact communities, advocating for social justice or working internationally, this program provides a robust foundation to help you turn those goals into reality.

At Mount Saint Mary’s, political science students engage in undergraduate research, tackling real-world issues and developing the analytical skills that employers value. You’ll have access to applied courses in public policy, where you’ll learn to address complex challenges; travel-study and internship opportunities that will expand your learning beyond the classroom; and inter-collegiate competitions and student debates that will prepare you to communicate, negotiate and advocate for your beliefs. By studying political science at the Mount, you’ll join a network of change-makers equipped with the knowledge, confidence and real-world experience needed to make a lasting impact.

GRADUATING FROM MSMU CHANGED MY LIFE.

Political science is a study of power.

Who has it, when and why. We seek to understand the consequences of power structures across cultures, institutions and political actors. In this time of unparalleled change, understanding power — and politics — is key to successfully engaging the world around us.

CAREER OPPORTUNITIES AND PROGRAM OUTCOMES FOR POLITICAL SCIENCE GRADUATES

Political science graduates from Mount Saint Mary’s University are well-equipped to pursue diverse career paths that make a real impact in society. With a curriculum that fuses theoretical knowledge with practical experiences, students develop critical insights into political systems and strategies for driving change. As graduates, students are prepared for roles in government, law, journalism and international relations, with the confidence to engage in diplomacy, negotiation and leadership. They learn to navigate the intricacies of global diplomacy and cross-cultural communication, opening doors to opportunities in public policy, community organizing, education, healthcare policy, human rights and international development.

Those who graduate with the pre-law minor find success in gaining admission to prestigious law schools, including Yale, Harvard and Columbia, as well as renowned California programs such as UCLA, USC, UC San Diego, and Loyola Law School. Our overarching goal is to cultivate engaged, informed citizens ready to take on leadership roles and contribute positively to the world around them.

Through a curriculum that combines theoretical learning with hands-on experiences, you’ll gain critical insights into the political systems that govern societies and the strategies that drive change.

Feeling empowered to shape the future? Apply to join the Mount community today.

EXPLORE OUR POLITICAL SCIENCE MAJOR, PUBLIC POLICY CONCENTRATION AND THREE MEANINGFUL MINORS

The political science major challenges our students to become – and to continue becoming – exceptional leaders. Offering a concentration in public policy and minors in international relations, political science and pre-law, we provide a superior education through challenging and innovative coursework, skills-building instruction and exposure to professional research methods.

BA IN POLITICAL SCIENCE

MSMU’s political science major puts you in control of your academic journey. In your first year, you’ll start with a solid foundation of three lower-division courses, then explore your interests through nine upper-division courses tailored specifically to your goals. Led by faculty who are experts in their fields, your classes will come to life through debates, simulations, community projects and hands-on trips. Whether you’re drawn to local government, constitutional law or the dynamics of globalization, our program equips you with the skills and experiences to dive into the world of politics and policy.

CONCENTRATION IN PUBLIC POLICY

For those with a passion for shaping policy, the public policy concentration offers focused coursework in government policymaking, analysis and implementation. With training designed to prepare you for impactful careers in public service or with NGOs, this concentration will empower you to engage in policy design, community initiatives and advocacy work. If you’re ready to make a difference, our public policy pathway provides the tools and knowledge to lead change at every level.

INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS MINOR

A minor in international relations offers an in-depth look at the forces that shape our world, giving you a deeper understanding of global relationships, diverse government systems and the impacts of globalization. It’s the ideal minor for students eager to add a global perspective to their studies and gain insights into the world’s challenges and opportunities.

POLITICAL SCIENCE MINOR

Enhance any major with a political science minor and build a toolkit for tackling today’s most pressing issues. A foundation in policy and political processes can help you address community, national and global challenges, no matter your major or industry of focus. Whether you're interested in legislative systems, California politics or international security, this minor empowers you with the knowledge to drive change.

PRE-LAW MINOR

Mount Saint Mary’s pre-law minor is the first step toward a thriving legal career. Designed to prepare you for the rigor of law school, this program sharpens your analytical, writing and advocacy skills through the Socratic method with law school-style exams and hands-on law experiences like Mock Trial and Moot Court. Join a legacy of successful Mount graduates accepted into top law schools and take your place among a network of influential legal professionals.

SHAPE YOUR PATH WITH ENGAGING POLITICAL SCIENCE COURSES

Each course is designed to engage you with real-world issues and experiential learning experiences that prepare you to shape impactful decisions and make a difference.

Explore the evolving relationship between gender and law in the U.S. through landmark cases and influential legal writings. Dive into key issues such as employment discrimination, workplace harassment, violence against women, reproductive rights and LGBTQ+ rights and gain insight into how these areas have shaped and continue to transform gender rights.

Unpack the powerful forces behind political revolutions and social movements with case studies from the French, American, Russian and Chinese revolutions. Get to know the ideologies, economic pressure and key figures that drive change and inspire movements.

Step into the world of public policy with a focus on women's healthcare issues. Through hands-on mock committee hearings, you'll take on the roles of interest groups and legislators to tackle real-world challenges and debate solutions for better policy outcomes.

The experience of competing in Moot Court stimulated me personally and academically because it gave me a greater sense of my capabilities and helped me improve speaking and research skills that I can carry throughout my education as an undergraduate and into law school.

TRANSFORM YOUR EDUCATION WITH HANDS-ON OPPORTUNITIES

Political science major offers a wide range of special programs designed to give you real-world experiences and deepen your understanding of the field. Expand your knowledge outside of the classroom with experiences that provide both practical skills and valuable networking connections. Get involved and make the most of your time at Mount Saint Mary’s University!

• Internships Political science students at the Mount gain hands-on experiences through internships with local, state, national and international government entities, non-governmental organizations and interest groups. These internships give you a chance to see policy-making in action and understand the inner workings of the field, building a strong foundation for your career.

INTERNSHIPS

Political science students at the Mount gain hands-on experiences through internships with local, state, national and international government entities, non-governmental organizations and interest groups. These internships give you a chance to see policy-making in action and understand the inner workings of the field, building a strong foundation for your career.

• Global Women in STEM and Policy ﻿ The Global Women in STEM and Policy Undergraduate Research Training Honors Program trains cohorts of undergraduate women to conduct basic and applied research in both the sciences and social sciences, with a focus on global and interdisciplinary approaches. This program reflects the Mount’s mission and strategic plan to empower women, engage in a global environment and increase undergraduate research opportunities.

GLOBAL WOMEN IN STEM AND POLICY
﻿

The Global Women in STEM and Policy Undergraduate Research Training Honors Program trains cohorts of undergraduate women to conduct basic and applied research in both the sciences and social sciences, with a focus on global and interdisciplinary approaches. This program reflects the Mount’s mission and strategic plan to empower women, engage in a global environment and increase undergraduate research opportunities.

• Mock Trial and Moot Court For students with a pre-law minor who are interested in applying to law schools after graduation, The Mock Trial is a simulation of trial court proceedings where students play the roles of attorneys and witnesses, conducting direct and cross-examinations and delivering opening and closing statements. The Moot Court is a simulation of appellate argument where students must present their case before a panel of judges who question the students about the facts and law of their case.

MOCK TRIAL AND MOOT COURT

For students with a pre-law minor who are interested in applying to law schools after graduation, The Mock Trial is a simulation of trial court proceedings where students play the roles of attorneys and witnesses, conducting direct and cross-examinations and delivering opening and closing statements. The Moot Court is a simulation of appellate argument where students must present their case before a panel of judges who question the students about the facts and law of their case.