Welcome to

OFFICE OF ADMISSIONS

OUR MISSION

The Office of Admissions is responsible for determining student eligibility for admission to the university by a thorough evaluation of applications and transcripts. We are also responsible for determining residency status and review appeals for exception to University policy.

ADDITIONAL SERVICES

Residency for Tuition Purposes

The California State University, Fullerton (CSUF) Office of Admissions is responsible for determining the residency status of all new and returning students based on the Application for Admission, Residency Questionnaire, and as necessary, other evidence furnished by the student.  This determination of residency is not to determine if a student is a resident or nonresident in the state of California, but rather determine whether a student pays resident/in-state or nonresident/out-of-state tuition fees. Nonresident fees are higher than resident fees (see current Tuition & Fees). Learn more about the
process to submit a residency request.
.

Admission Appeals

Students whose applications have been denied or withdrawn for any of these reasons have the right to appeal as outlined in Section 89030.7 of the California Education Code. It is the responsibility of the Office of Admissions Appeals Committee to review admission appeals for undergraduate students for exception to university policy.

Submit an Admissions Appeal

Admission Deadlines

Fall 2025 Applications now Closed! Filing period for undergraduate admission is October 1st to December 2nd via
Cal State Apply
.

Spring 2026 Filing period for undergraduate admission is August 1st- 31st, 2025 via
Cal State Apply
.

Undergraduate Admission Deadlines

JEANNE CLERY DISCLOSURE OF CAMPUS SECURITY POLICY AND CRIME STATISTICS ACT NOTIFICATION:

Pursuant to the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act, you can view the current
Annual Security Report (ASR)
. This report contains the current security and safety-related policy statements, emergency preparedness and evacuation information, crime prevention and sexual assault prevention information, and drug and alcohol prevention programming. The ASR also contains statistics of Clery Act crimes for California State University, Fullerton for the last three (3) calendar years. Paper copies are available upon request at the CSUF Police Department.

Notice of Non-Discrimination on the Basis of Gender or Sex and Contact Information for Title IX Coordinator