FINANCIAL AID

• Financial Aid
• Scholarships

APPLYING
FOR AID

FINANCIAL AID OVERVIEW

The purpose of financial aid is to assist students whose personal and family resources are insufficient to
meet the total cost of education at Laguna College of Art + Design. Financial aid is available from one or
more of the following sources: scholarships, grants, part-time employment, and loans. LCAD is also eligible
to participate in the Department of Veterans Affairs Educational Assistance programs. Eligibility for most forms of financial aid is based on demonstrated financial need. Financial need is the difference between
the Cost of Education (a standard budget) and the Estimated Family Contribution (the amount the student,
and if applicable, the student’s spouse and/or parents can be expected to contribute). Cost of Education components include tuition and fees, an allowance for books and supplies, housing, food, transportation,
and personal expenses. Family contributions are based on the Federal Methodology analysis of the information provided
on the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and supplemental documents. Students who believe they will need financial assistance to attend LCAD and who meet the eligibility requirements are encouraged to apply for aid. Financial aid awards are made for one academic year and must be reapplied for each subsequent
year. To receive need-based financial aid from LCAD, the applicant must meet the following eligibility criteria outlined below.

Through the generosity of donors who believe in LCAD’s mission, a portion of your financial aid, including your merit scholarship, is supported by endowed funds established to invest in students and their future success.

ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA

• Be accepted for enrollment as a matriculating student.
• Be a U.S. citizen or eligible non-citizen.
• Maintain measurable satisfactory academic progress according to the standards and practices  established by LCAD while enrolled.
• Not owe a refund on or be in default of any Title IV loan previously received for attendance at any postsecondary institution. Be in compliance with Selective Service regulations.

GOVERNMENT
FORMS

APPLICATION PROCEDURES

To be considered for any type of need-based aid at LCAD, complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) online at studentaid.gov. If you cannot complete
the application online, please contact the Financial Aid office. Processing time may vary depending on the type
of application and the date of submission. Generally,
the processor needs three to six weeks to process the application. Plotkin Memorial Foundation; Roger Armstrong Scholarship Fund; and the Robert and Jean Schrimmer Endowment Fund.

YOUR
GPA

QUALITATIVE EVALUATION 1:
MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA

REQUIRED NUMBER
OF UNITS

QUANTITATIVE EVALUATION 1: MINIMUM COMPLETION OF ATTEMPTED UNITS PER ACADEMIC YEAR

YOUR
GPA

QUANTITATIVE EVALUATION 2:
MAXIMUM TOTAL UNITS THAT CAN BE ATTEMPTED TO COMPLETE A PROGRAM

ARE
YOU SAP ELIGIBLE

SAP EVALUATION

Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) is first calculated at the end of the spring semester following the student’s first term of enrollment as a regular degree-seeking student and annually at the end of the spring semester thereafter. SAP is also calculated at the point when a continuing student applies for aid for the first time. Both qualitative (cumulative GPA) AND quantitative (units attempted and earned) progress is measured regardless of enrollment status. These measurements apply to ALL hours attempted and recognized by LCAD for
degree consideration from all institutions.

ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA

• Students meeting the standards above at the time of calculation will be considered in good SAP standing.
• Students who do not meet the requirements shown above will be put on SAP probation and are notified that they are not making satisfactory progress toward their degree and are given one academic year to become compliant. If, after the next academic year, the student is once again not making progress or has not graduated, his/her financial aid will be suspended.
• Rules are applied uniformly to all students for all periods of enrollment whether or not aid has been received previously.
• Students who are returning to the college after being on SAP suspension will have their record reviewed by the Financial Aid Office upon re-entry. A student must meet SAP requirements to get financial aid.
• Eligibility for financial aid is re-established after a student improves his/ her academic record to meet the minimum standards, or an appeal due to unusual and/or mitigating circumstances is approved.
• Students are responsible for knowing the SAP eligibility criteria and their status at the end of each term. They may contact the Financial Aid Office if questions arise.

COURSES
+ UNITS

UNITS ATTEMPTED
AND UNITS EARNED

SUCCESSFULLY COMPLETED UNITS

To successfully complete units in general education courses, the student must receive a grade of “D” or better, or “P” in a pass/fail course. To success- fully complete units in Art Studio courses, as well as English Composition and Critical Reasoning courses, the student must receive a grade of “C” or better. Grades “NP,” “I,” and “RD” do not count as successful completion of units until replaced by a passing grade.

TRANSFERRED COURSES

Courses transferred from other institutions will be counted toward the maximum total units attempted to complete degree requirements.

ADD/DROP OR WITHDRAW

If the student registers for a class but drops it by the Add/Drop Deadline, it does not count as units attempted. Any classes which are dropped after the Add/Drop Deadline but before the Withdrawal deadline will result in the grade of “W” and will count as units attempted and not completed. Grades of “W” do not affect the student’s GPA.

REPEATED COURSES

Repeated courses are counted as both units attempted and units completed for SAP purposes and the GPA will only reflect the highest grade.

REMEDIAL COURSES

Remedial courses are not counted as units attempted or units completed, and they have no affect on GPA.

AUDITED COURSES

Audited Courses are not counted as units attempted or units completed, and they have no affect on GPA. They are also not counted for enrollment purposes.

DISQUALIFICATION

If it becomes mathematically impossible for a student to complete his program before he reaches the maximum allowable number of units attempted, then he will be disqualified from receiving financial aid.

FAILED COURSES

Failed courses will count as units attempted and not as units earned.

MORE SAP
INFORMATION

MORE INFORMATION

CHANGES IN MAJOR

A change in your major does not extend eligibility for financial assistance.

STUDY ABROAD

All credit hours applicable to the current degree program attempted during Study Abroad terms will count as both units attempted and units earned.

ADDITIONAL LCAD DEGREES IN DIFFERENT PROGRAMS

If a student has already earned a degree from LCAD and returns to earn another degree in a different major, the SAP requirements will be exactly the same as for any transfer student (units transferred in will count as units completed and units attempted).

ENTERING STUDENTS

Students with no enrollment history in a degree program at LCAD will enter on SAP good standing and will qualify for aid if otherwise eligible. All work accepted for transfer by LCAD will be included in the SAP calculation.

RETURNING STUDENTS

All returning students will re-enter at the SAP status earned at the end of their last LCAD enrollment. Students cannot reestablish eligibility simply by taking terms off from LCAD.

PROBATION AND SUSPENSION

All students who fail to maintain SAP will be placed on SAP probation for the following academic year. During this time, they will remain eligible for financial aid. If good SAP status is not achieved by the end of the academic year, they will be placed on SAP suspension and no financial aid will be awarded. The student must either achieve good SAP status or file a successful appeal to regain eligibility.

SAP
APPEAL

APPEALS AND REINSTATEMENT

• SAP Suspension may be appealed if unusual and/or mitigating circumstances affected academic progress. Such circumstances may include a severe illness or injury to the student or an immediate family member; the death of a student’s relative; student activation for military service; or other circumstances as deemed appropriate for consideration by the Academic Standing Committee consisting of two Deans, the Registrar, and the Director of Financial Aid and Student Services.
• The student must submit an appeal on the official LCAD Appeal Form to the Financial Aid Office by July 1. Appeal forms are available on the LCAD web site or in the Financial Aid Office. The appeal must explain the special circumstances that led to the student not meeting SAP requirements. The Academic Standing Committee will review the appeal and the student will receive a response within two weeks from the date of submission.
• The Academic Standing Committee’s decision result will be sent to the student by postal mail and by electronic mail.
• Students that have their appeal approved have one semester to meet SAP requirements or they will be suspended from financial aid. During their approved appeal semester, they will be eligible to receive financial aid.
• Appeal approvals will not result in retroactive funding.
• Academic Standing Committee decisions are final and cannot be appealed to another source.
• At the end of each semester, the Financial Aid Office will evaluate students who have been suspended from financial aid. Once a student again meets SAP requirements, their financial aid will be reinstated. The student will be eligible for Pell and SEOG for the payment period in which the student resumes SAP. The student will  be eligible for federal loans for the entire period of enrollment in which the student resumes SAP.

TITLE
IV

APPEALS AND REINSTATEMENT

According to federal guidelines (Section 668.22 of the Higher Education Amendments of 1998), withdrawing students who have received Title IV financial aid will have their financial aid recalculated according to the following guidelines:

Only the amount of financial aid that has been earned (disbursed or could have been disbursed) based on the prorated amount of time the student has been in school for the semester will be retained on the student’s behalf. Any aid that is not earned (based on the prorated amount of time) must be returned to the appropriate federal account/lender.

For example, if a student receiving $10,141 in federal aid completes 20% of the semester, they would have earned that percentage and the approved federal aid ($2,028) therefore, 80% ($8,113) of the disbursed aid remains “unearned” and must be returned to the federal programs. The college would refund 80% of the tuition charges (i.e if tuition charges of $4,200, the refund would be $3,360) to the appropriate federal program. No tuition refund would be disbursed to the student until Title IV (federal loans/grants) funds are repaid. A student withdrawing after the 60% point has earned 100% of the disbursed federal aid. Any unearned funds disbursed to the student in the federal loan programs would be repaid based on the terms of the borrower’s promissory note.

The date of withdrawal is the date the College receives notification (e.g., submitting a withdrawal request form or any other form of communication such as email or telephone call) from the student on their intent to withdrawal. In cases of an unofficial withdrawal, meaning the student has not notified the college of their intent to withdrawal, the Bursar’s Office will work with the Registrar’s Office and the student’s faculty to determine the last date of attendance and retroactively process a pro rata tuition calculation and R2T4 as needed.

The amount of refundable institutional charges (tuition and fees) will be set by school policy. The College’s treatment of tuition and other fees related to student withdrawal may be found in the student handbook. If there is a balance due resulting from the calculation of unearned aid, the student may be responsible for payment.

For students who have received federal financial aid, any refundable portion of tuition and fee costs that have been covered by a Federal Direct Loan will be refunded directly to the lender, who will credit it against the student’s outstanding balance.

The Financial Aid Office determines specific amounts according to applicable federal regulations. If the calculation shows that the student had eligibility for aid that had not yet been disbursed, the student will be given the option of receiving those funds. The applicable tuition and fees are listed in the student handbook. Non-mandatory fees are not included in the refund calculation.

STUDY
ABROAD

STUDY ABROAD POLICY

Students may use their aid to study abroad for a maximum of one year. Students who study abroad are not eligible to receive any institutional funds (LCAD Institutional Grant, LCAD Grant, and any other funds awarded by the LCAD Scholarship Committee) during their time abroad. Here is a summary of additional study abroad policies.

STUDY ABROAD POLICIES CHANGES IN MAJOR

• A 30-unit residency must be completed at LCAD before going abroad.
• Mandatory senior year in residence at LCAD.
• No institutional grant will be awarded during residency abroad.
• Student may use their federal and state aid while abroad.
• Student must complete the Study Abroad Expense Budget Form in the Financial Aid Office to get their aid approved.
• Student must have their classes to be taken abroad approved by the appropriate program chair before going abroad.

COURSES +
UNITS

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL AID + COSTS

FINANCIAL AID CHART

UNDERGRADUATE LOANS

The Direct Stafford Loan Program consists of low-interest subsidized and unsubsidized loans funded by the federal government. Loans are available to undergraduate, graduate, and professional students who are U.S. citizens or permanent residents. Loan repayment begins six months after graduation or dropping below half-time enrollment.

This is a long-term, low-interest federal loan; 6.533%. Subsidized means the interest is paid by the Federal Government while the student is in school at least half time or during the grace period. This is a need-based loan as determined by the FAFSA information. This loan must be repaid. The maximum aggregate loan amount allowed is $23,000 for undergraduate studies. The yearly maximum amount of this loan is based upon your class standing. Please see the Financial Aid Chart for a breakdown of
class standing and yearly loan amounts.

This is a long-term, low-interest federal loan; 6.533%. Unsubsidized means the student is responsible for the interest on the loan instead of the Federal Government. Interest payments can be capitalized, which means they will be deferred with the principal while the student is in school. This interest amount will be added to the principal balance. This is a non-need-based loan as determined by the FAFSA information.

This loan must be repaid. The maximum aggregate loan amount allowed is $31,000 for dependent students and $57,500 for independent students for undergraduate studies (less any Stafford/Direct subsidized borrowing). The yearly maximum amount of this loan is based upon your class standing and your dependency status. Please see the Financial Aid Chart for a breakdown of class standing and yearly loan amounts.

The PLUS loan program is available to parents of dependent students and has a fixed rate of 9.083%. These serve as a supplemental source of money to parents on behalf of their dependent son or daughter. Plus loans, unlike the Federal Stafford Loan program, are subject to credit approval by a lender and repayment begins within 60 days of full disbursement, although deferments are available if the student is currently enrolled at least half-time. If the parent’s credit is denied the student may be eligible for additional Direct Unsubsidized Stafford loans. There are no aggregate loan limits. This loan is in the parent’s name.

SCHOLARSHIPS + GRANTS

Laguna College of Art + Design (LCAD) offers a variety of scholarships and grants made possible through the generosity of individual donors, alumni, outside organizations, and the College itself.

Merit Scholarships are awarded at the time of admission and are based on a thoughtful review of each applicant’s portfolio and academic history.

LCAD Access Scholarships are available to continuing students who demonstrate financial need. Recipients may receive up to $1,000 annually toward tuition, based on funding availability.

LCAD Transfer Scholarships are awarded to incoming transfer students in their first year, providing $1,000 in tuition assistance ($500 per semester) to help support a successful transition to LCAD.

All scholarship recipients must continue to meet the College’s Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) requirements to remain eligible.

In addition, many
other scholarships and endowed awards
are supported through the generosity of LCAD alumni, friends, and community partners, including:

Nina Fitzpatrick Endowed Scholarship, Burke/Rankin Endowed Scholarship, Thavirat Endowed Scholarship, Kilroy Endowed Scholarship, Schrimmer Endowed Scholarship, Eichenberg Endowed Scholarship, Anderson Family Endowed Scholarship, Armstrong Scholarship, Post Endowed Scholarship, Emily Teed Scott Endowment, Agnes Schenk Endowed Scholarship, The Bushnell Family Endowed Scholarship, Andrew Livingston Endowed Scholarship, Graduates of Samueli Academy Scholarship, Kutner Scholarship, Elie Weaver & Hilton Weinberg Scholarship, Kinoshita Scholarship, Mansour Scholarship, McKenna Scholarship, Matthew Dawson Memorial Scholarship, and many more.

LCAD participates in two federally funded grant programs: the Federal Pell Grant, and the Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant (FSEOG). A grant is gift aid that does not have to be repaid as long as the student continues to meet all of the eligibility requirements.

LCAD is eligible to participate in the Cal Grant A and Cal Grant B programs that are funded by the state of California and administrated by the California Student Aid Commission. All financial aid applicants who are California residents and U.S. citizens or eligible non-citizens are encouraged to apply for one of the Cal Grant programs. The annual deadline to apply for these grants is March 2. In order to apply for a Cal Grant you must complete the FAFSA by March 2 and send in a GPA verification to the California Student Aid Commission (CSAC) by March 2. LCAD will send GPA verifications for current LCAD students who request the verifications. Verifications will be sent to CSAC electronically. If a student has not completed 24 units at LCAD, they must request that their GPA verification be sent by their previous institution.

Federal Work-Study (FWS) is funded by the federal government, with some matching LCAD funds. Employment is limited to on-campus jobs, except for certain community-service jobs. FWS enables you to earn part of your financial aid award through part-time employment on campus. To participate, you must be eligible for and be awarded a FWS award as part of the financial aid package. In order to be awarded FWS, you must attend the FWS student meeting at the beginning of each semester.

ALTERNATIVE LOANS

Alternative loans, or private loans, help bridge the gap between federal and state aid awarded to the student and the actual cost of education. Private loans are offered by private lenders and there are no federal forms to complete. Eligibility for private student loans often depends on your credit score. These loans are in the student’s name, although most students re- quire co-signers in order to meet the credit criteria for most lenders. LCAD will work with any lender that the student chooses.

GRADUATE LOANS

This is a long-term, low-interest federal loan. Unsubsidized means you are responsible for the interest on the loan instead of the Federal Government. Interest payments can be capitalized, which means they will be deferred with the principal while you are in school. This interest amount will be added to the principal balance. This is a non-need-based loan as determined by the FAFSA information. This loan must be repaid. The maximum aggregate loan amount is $138,500 for undergraduate and graduate studies combined (less any Stafford/Direct subsidized borrowing). The maximum amount that can be borrowed per academic year is $20,500 (less any Stafford/Direct subsidized borrowing) determined by the FAFSA information. This loan must be repaid. The maximum aggregate loan amount is $138,500 for undergraduate and graduate studies combined (less any Stafford/Direct subsidized borrowing). The maximum amount that can be borrowed per academic year is $20,500 (less any Stafford/Direct subsidized borrowing).

A federal PLUS loan that has a fixed interest rate of 7.9% is available for graduate students. The borrower may request an amount up to the cost of education minus other financial aid. Repayment begins within 60 days of full disbursement, although in-school deferments are available. The student must have no adverse credit history. There are no aggregate limits.

VETERAN AID

Most degree programs offered at LCAD are approved by the California State Approving Agency for Veterans Education. However students should verify that their program is eligible by contacting the Financial Aid Office.

These benefits are available to veterans, to children of certain deceased or disabled veterans, and sometimes to the spouse of a veteran. Application for benefits may be made through any DVA regional office or through the Financial Aid office. If a student’s cumulative GPA drops below 2.0 for two consecutive semesters, the student will be disqualified from the program at LCAD, the Department of Veteran Affairs will be notified, and all benefits will cease. Students are limited to two independent-study courses, which can count toward their program objective. During the student’s first two semesters, LCAD will conduct an evaluation of previous education and training, grant appropriate credit, shorten the veteran’s or eligible person’s duration of the course proportionately, and notify the DVA and student accordingly.

The Yellow Ribbon GI Education Enhancement Program (Yellow Ribbon Program) is a provision of the Post-9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2008. This program allows institutions of higher learning (degree granting institutions) in the United States to voluntarily enter into an agreement with VA to fund tuition expenses that exceed the highest public in-state undergraduate tuition rate. The institution can contribute up to 50% of those expenses and VA will match the same amount as the institution.

Only Veterans entitled to the maximum benefit rate of 100%, as determined by the service requirements, or their designated transferees may receive Yellow Ribbon benefits from Pacific and the VA. Active duty Service members and their spouses are not eligible for this program.

The general eligibility requirements for the Yellow Ribbon Program include:

• You served an aggregate period of 36 months in active duty after Sept. 10, 2001
• You were honorably discharged from active duty for a service-connected disability and you served 30 continuous days after Sept. 10, 2001
• You are a dependent eligible for Transfer of Entitlement under the Post-9/11 GI Bill® based on the service eligibility criteria listed above
We encourage all Veterans to review the eligibility criteria directly from the VA’s Yellow Ribbon Program website.

GI Bill® is a registered trademark of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). More information about education benefits offered by VA is available at the official U.S. government Web site at
http://www.benefits.va.gov/gibill

FINANCIAL AID FORMS

COST OF ATTENDANCE

CARES ACT EMERGENCY RELIEF FUNDING DISCLOSURE