Physics teaches you to be an expert problem solver, which will benefit you no matter what you do in life. Majoring in physics or engineering physics will give you an appreciation for many of nature's most interesting phenomena. And finally, the Department of Physics and Engineering Physics is just a great place to be at Santa Clara University.

You can do almost anything with a physics or engineering physics degree. Employers know that it takes hard work, intelligence, and creativity to successfully complete a major in physics. Our graduates who enter the job market find employment in a wide range of places including high-tech, business, R&D, education and more.

ABOUT OUR PROGRAM

The Department of Physics and Engineering Physics offers major programs of lecture and laboratory instruction leading to the bachelor of science in physics, the bachelor of science in physics with a biophysics emphasis, and the bachelor of science in engineering physics. The department also provides an academic minor in physics and required and elective courses for students majoring in other fields.

FACULTY & STAFF

• Professor Christopher P. Weber Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley, 2005
Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley, 2005

Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley, 2005

• Academic Department Manager Diane Idemoto 408-554-4314 | Sobrato Campus for Discovery and Innovation contact
408-554-4314 | Sobrato Campus for Discovery and Innovation
contact

408-554-4314 | Sobrato Campus for Discovery and Innovation
contact

What if we could actually see the quantum world at work?
Associate Professor Lomsadze uses powerful laser-based tools to capture ultrafast events in quantum materials, work that could shape the future of technology.

Chris graduated from Harvard University in 2022 and was a postdoctoral scholar at Stanford University (2022-2025).
Learn more about Chris Ciccarino
.

BEYOND THE CLASSROOM

Physics Clubs

Past Colloquia

NEWS & EVENTS

OUR STORIES

• Bronco Family Ties A father and his sons share the Santa Clara experience across generations, building new memories on the same campus that shaped their family’s values and sense of belonging.
A father and his sons share the Santa Clara experience across generations, building new memories on the same campus that shaped their family’s values and sense of belonging.

• Liquid Nitrogen Ice Cream Social

LIFE AFTER SCU

Among our ~140 SCU Physics and Engineering Physics who graduated in the last 15 years: 30 entered PhD programs in physics, engineering, computer science, math, or related disciplines; 20 earned terminal Master’s Degrees, mainly in engineering or materials science; 10 began research careers at national labs, major universities, or in industry; 10 teach at the elementary or high school level; 5 entered medical school; 5 entered law school; 5 are professional musicians or artists; and 1 is a professional basketball player. Many others formed successful start-up companies or began active and enjoyable careers in business, analytics, agriculture, and a host of other fields in industry and elsewhere.

ALUMNI STORIES

See what Jimmy Williams '02 is up to.