CHEMISTRY DEPARTMENT

In lab with Professor Malkiat Johal

In lab with Professor Ball

Study session at the Campus Center with Professor Dan O’Leary

In lab with Professor Dan O’Leary

In lab with Professor Cynthia Selassie

Study the fundamental processes of the chemical world via collegial classrooms and real-world lab experiences.

The Pomona College chemistry major and minor provides students with a thorough education in the fundamental processes of the chemical world, while fostering creative and critical thinking.

The curriculum will introduce students to an understanding of chemical phenomena, structure, properties and transformations at the atomic, molecular, and macroscopic level and the macroscopic level. After an introductory course, foundational courses in analytical, biological, inorganic, organic, and physical chemistry are available, all with state-of-the-art laboratories.

Elective courses explore topics such as advanced biochemistry, computational, environmental, materials, and medicinal chemistry, NMR spectroscopy, and chemical biology. Students can further supplement their chemical education by enrolling in elective courses offered at the other Claremont Colleges.

The Department offers a major and minor in chemistry. ACS certification or electing to focus on chemical engineering are options for the major.

The Pomona College Chemistry Department believes that all students belong in our classrooms, and that each of those students has an equal right to pathways toward success. A collegial and supportive environment distinguishes our student-faculty interaction in many contexts: the classroom, course laboratories, and in student/faculty collaborative research projects, which often result in findings published in peer-reviewed journals or otherwise disseminated in the broader scientific community.

The Chemistry Department occupies the well-equipped Seaver Chemistry Laboratory. Students will work with modern instrumentation and software while engaged in coursework and research.

Students will engage with the scientific community outside of Claremont through, among other opportunities, the Department’s 5C Chemistry Seminar Series, which brings distinguished guest speakers to campus on a regular basis. Our annual Robbins Lecture Series brings an exceptional leader in the chemical sciences to campus for a week of lectures and student-centered activities.

The Department’s goal for the educational experience it offers is to prepare students for advanced study in the sciences and a variety of professional pursuits, and to create informed lifelong learners.

CHEMISTRY NEWS