BACHELOR OF ARTS IN HEALTH, MEDICINE, AND SOCIETY

The Bachelor of Arts in Health, Medicine, and Society explores the social, cultural, and ethical dimensions of healthcare. Through interdisciplinary courses, you will gain a broad understanding of health and its impact on society, with an emphasis on critical thinking, service, and the factors shaping healthcare practices and policies.

DEGREES OFFERED

Bachelor of Arts

PROGRAM TYPES

Undergraduate, Major

MODE OF STUDY

On Campus

DEPARTMENT

SCHOOL / COLLEGE

WHAT IS A HEALTH, MEDICINE, AND SOCIETY DEGREE?

The health, medicine, and society degree is an interdisciplinary program that analyzes health and medicine within social contexts. The program is built upon the conviction that questions about health and healthcare can only be meaningfully addressed by integrating different disciplinary perspectives. In the program, you will be prepared to discuss a range of fields and approaches within healthcare, applying a range of relevant theories, concepts, and approaches to examine questions related to health and healthcare-related problems facing individuals and communities.

WHY SHOULD YOU MAJOR IN HEALTH, MEDICINE, AND SOCIETY AT REDLANDS?

Majoring in health, medicine, and society at the University of Redlands provides a unique opportunity to explore the broader social and ethical contexts of healthcare, equipping you to make a meaningful impact across diverse career paths such as nursing or becoming a physician assistant. The program’s interdisciplinary approach, combined with a strong focus on service, prepares you to navigate the complexities of modern healthcare. Upon program completion, you will be well-positioned to pursue advanced degrees at prestigious institutions like USC, UCLA, UC Irvine, Tufts, Boston University, and NYU, further expanding your expertise and career potential.

CLASSES YOU'LL TAKE

Students declaring an HMS major will develop a course of study comprised of a minimum of 11 courses (a minimum of 38 credits). The major is structured around four broad areas. Students design an individualized course of study with a core sequence (4 courses), a concentration in one emphasis area (5 courses/minimum of 19 credits), and breadth from two elective areas (2 courses/minimum of 7 units each). Health and Social Justice must be either an elective or emphasis area for all HMS majors. To ensure depth of study, a maximum of 3 100-level courses can count towards a student’s concentration and electives.

Given that the ability to communicate with diverse communities is essential to health care, all HMS majors are strongly encouraged to develop competency in a second language.

To view specific classes, program requirements, learning outcomes, and coursework information, visit the
current university catalog
.

THE MAJOR REQUIRES COMPLETION OF:

MAJOR REQUIREMENTS: MINIMUM 38 CREDITS

• Foundation Course: 1 course/4 credits HMS 100 Health, Medicine, and Society

• Mathematical Methods: 1 course/4 credits Take one of the following courses: MATH 111 Elementary Statistics and Probability with Applications POLI 202 Statistical Analysis and Mapping of Social Science Data PSYCH 250 Statistical Methods
• Take one of the following courses: MATH 111 Elementary Statistics and Probability with Applications POLI 202 Statistical Analysis and Mapping of Social Science Data PSYCH 250 Statistical Methods
• MATH 111 Elementary Statistics and Probability with Applications
• POLI 202 Statistical Analysis and Mapping of Social Science Data
• PSYCH 250 Statistical Methods
• Concentration: 5 courses/19-20 credits Take five courses addressing one of the areas within the program (Natural Science, Policy and Management, Person and Society, or Health and Social Justice).
• Take five courses addressing one of the areas within the program (Natural Science, Policy and Management, Person and Society, or Health and Social Justice).
• Health and Social Justice or Electives (2 courses / 7-8 credits) All HMS majors must take at least two courses in the Health and Social Justice area. If your concentration is in that area, you can select two elective courses in any of the other areas as electives.
• All HMS majors must take at least two courses in the Health and Social Justice area. If your concentration is in that area, you can select two elective courses in any of the other areas as electives.
• Capstone: (2 courses/4 credits) Complete the capstone sequence: HMS 300 Integrative Seminar I: 2 credits HMS 400 Integrative Seminar II: 2 credits HMS 300 should be completed at the end of a student’s junior year, and HMS 400 should be completed at the end of a student’s senior year.  Students will design a service/internship plan in HMS 300, then reflect upon and integrate their service experience with their course of study in HMS 400 after that project is completed.  The completion of a service/internship project is required to complete the capstone sequence.
• Complete the capstone sequence: HMS 300 Integrative Seminar I: 2 credits HMS 400 Integrative Seminar II: 2 credits HMS 300 should be completed at the end of a student’s junior year, and HMS 400 should be completed at the end of a student’s senior year.  Students will design a service/internship plan in HMS 300, then reflect upon and integrate their service experience with their course of study in HMS 400 after that project is completed.  The completion of a service/internship project is required to complete the capstone sequence.
• HMS 300 Integrative Seminar I: 2 credits
• HMS 400 Integrative Seminar II: 2 credits
• HMS 300 should be completed at the end of a student’s junior year, and HMS 400 should be completed at the end of a student’s senior year.  Students will design a service/internship plan in HMS 300, then reflect upon and integrate their service experience with their course of study in HMS 400 after that project is completed.  The completion of a service/internship project is required to complete the capstone sequence.
For more information, please consult an advisor within the HMS program.

DEPARTMENT HONORS

Students may apply for departmental honors in the fall of their senior year. To complete the honors requirements, students must successfully defend an Honors Project in HMS. The defense committee shall be composed of at least two faculty members, one of whom shall be an advisory board member in the HMS program. Students interested in pursuing honors will apply to seek honors in the fall of their senior year. For more information, contact the program director.

Early Action 1: November 1
Early Action 2: December 1
Regular Decision: January 15*

FIND US ON CAMPUS

Hall of Letters

WHAT YOU'LL LEARN

WHAT YOU'LL LEARN

GRADUATES PURSUE CAREERS IN

GRADUATES PURSUE CAREERS IN

THE CORE FOUR FRAMEWORK

At Redlands, our students’ success is at the heart of everything we do. We offer experiential learning opportunities, but our CORE Four initiative takes that commitment to a deeper, intentional level. More than a set of experiences, the CORE Four is a framework for transformation. Learn more about how students can prepare for their academic journey.

of University of Redlands B.A. in Health, Medicine, and Society graduates have successful outcomes within six months of graduation.

First Year Destination Survey, 2023

Alumni shared they gained critical thinking skills from their degree.

NACM Alumni Career Mobility, 2022

Best Universities in the West

U.S. News & World Report, 2023

FEATURED FACULTY

Every Redlands faculty member is an active practitioner in their field. The classes they teach emerge from their unique research and practices, and they’re passionate about what they’re sharing.

BEN ARONSON

CARYL FORRISTALL

JESSIE HEWITT

JAMES KRUEGER

JENNIFER NELSON

LISA OLSON

TIM SEIBER

WANT TO KNOW MORE?

Get in touch with our admissions team.