COMMUNICATION STUDIES
DEGREES & PROGRAMS

CULTIVATE WISDOM AND ELOQUENCE AS YOU STUDY HUMAN COMMUNICATION.

Become a wise analyst of human influence in a globally oriented, media-saturated environment. Explore your own role in the world in light of the increasing power of media, the challenge of interpersonal faithfulness, and the dynamics of social movements while being informed by Scripture and research in Communication Studies. And pursue eloquence in verbal and nonverbal action as you learn to embody compassion, argue clearly, and invite reconciliation.

• Comm. Studies Major Flyer
• Program Review
All Majors and Programs

COMMUNICATION STUDIES AT WESTMONT

ALUMNI STORIES

Kyle Mayl ’21,
double-majored in communication studies and Spanish at Westmont, where he was awarded a Fulbright Scholarship to teach English in Spain. He is currently a customer service specialist and an MFA candidate in poetry at Colorado State University

Amy Owens Roach ’03,
is vice president of iHeartMedia’s Connections West team. She works with the country’s largest advertisers on cross-platform, custom marketing campaigns, reaching more than 243 million people each month. Amy specializes in automotive advertising, working closely with Honda and Nissan to create artist-driven marketing campaigns using iHeartMedia’s suite of assets.

Kenna Brase ’22,
was selected as a Fulbright Scholar to teach English at a university in Turkey, where she built meaningful cross-cultural connections. She is now pursuing her MPhil at the University of Oxford, continuing her passion for global education and research.

Jim Roach ’00,
An Emmy award winning songwriter, record producer, and owner of Santa Monica Recordings based in Los Angeles. After years of being on the road and in the studio as a multi-instrumentalist, he switched gears in 2004 to work exclusively in the recording studio. He writes and produces music for film, television, trailers and commercials and works with artists as well. From 2015-2016 he took a job as executive producer for Apple Music and Beats1 Radio with Zane Lowe.

CAREER OPPORTUNITIES

Marketing & Sales

Public Relations

Journalism

Law

Ministry

Consulting

Advertising

Digital Media

Event Planning

Teaching

International Development

Mediation

Film and Television

Non-Profit Management

See Career Paths for Graduates Who Studied Communication Studies at Westmont

FACULTY AND STAFF

Read more

Read more

Read more

Read more

Academic Assistant
adhicks@westmont.edu
o: (805) 565-6156
Office: Deane Hall 104

Academic Assistant

adhicks@westmont.edu
o: (805) 565-6156
Office: Deane Hall 104

All Faculty

WESTMONT CENTER FOR DIALOGUE & DELIBERATION

What began as a research fellowship with the Kettering Foundation in 2017 has blossomed into a network of community partners and student facilitators led by Westmont professors Deborah Dunn and Rachel Winslow with a single purpose: to help students and the Santa Barbara community face challenging issues in healthy conversation.

OPPORTUNITIES ABROAD

• Communication Studies Mayterm in Conflict and Reconciliation (Israel/West Bank and Northern Ireland)
• American University of Paris: Global Communication Learn More
American University of Paris: Global Communication

Learn More

TRACKS & REQUIREMENTS

COM 006
: All students interested in Communication Studies should plan to take COM 006 (
Messages, Meaning, and Culture
) their first semester at Westmont (or second semester if need be). This course is required for the major and it provides an overview of many areas, theories, and concepts within the communication discipline. It also meets the General Education (GE) “Understanding Society” requirement.

If COM 006 is full, then we suggest that first year students take
COM 015
(Public Speaking, which meets the Writing/Speech Intensive GE) their first semester and COM 006 in the Spring.

COM 015:
Students are encouraged to take
Public Speaking
in their first year as it meets the Writing/Speech Intensive GE requirement and is a core course in the major.

Current course offerings

COM 098
: All students are required to take COM 098 (
Research Methods in Communication
) for the major, and it is a pre-requisite for several courses. We recommend you take this course early, but after you've taken COM 006.  It is best to have this course completed by the end of fall semester in your second year (or sooner if you are a transfer student).

During your second year, you will want to start taking courses that interest you and meet the category requirements for the major.  You will also want to look into off campus programs and plan your GE courses based on your major and off campus program plans.  Your advisor will discuss your plans for completing major courses, general education courses, and off campus programs with you.

During your third year, you will take more courses that meet the category requirements for the major. You will also complete an
"application for degree"
with your academic advisor, which is submitted to the Registrar's office for approval.

In your senior year, you will complete a
senior seminar
as well as all of your other requirements for a Westmont degree.  We recommend all students complete
internships
, in Santa Barbara, at home over the summer, or on an off-campus program.

• First Year
• Second Year
• Third Year
• Fourth Year

TITLE
YOU JUST HAVE TO SEE IT FOR YOURSELF

ENVISION YOUR FUTURE AT WESTMONT’S STUNNING CAMPUS, WHERE THE ENVIRONMENT FUELS CREATIVITY AND PERSONAL GROWTH.