Commitment to Student Success:

We offer student-centered curricula to respectfully meet the complex, dynamic needs
of our diverse students where they are, to ensure the success of each and every student.
This student-centeredness is ingrained within everything we do, by paying close attention
to the best interests of our students through our student advising, mentoring, and
support.

Meet an Advisor

Career-Oriented Professional Programs:

The Public Health field is fast-growing in the workforce. With its emphasis on employability
and professional development, our competence-based programs prepare leaders in areas
ranging from clinical in-patient care and preventive healthcare to health promotion
and population data science, and to community health education and ion management
and therapy.

List of Careers [pdf]

Hands-On Experiential Learning:

Our students pursue a variety of high-impact transformative opportunities for hands-on
experiential learning through worksite internships, project-based learning, applied
research, and community service-learning. This principle of learning-by-doing is integrated
into our skills-based professional programs in order to meet the evolving needs of
our Public Health field of practice.

Contact Us

Community-Building and Engagement:

We focus on building a community of learning through partnering with our alumni and
industry/community allies so that each and every student feels and experiences a sense
of belonging and connection within our programs. We invest our resources into our
student advising, mentorship, and engagement, inside and outside of the classroom,
all designed to facilitate the successes of our students both academically and professionally.

Donate to PH

Caring Committed Faculty:

Our passionate, committed faculty are the ones who build trust and relationships with
our students as role models to facilitate student engagement and success holistically.
They play a key role in our teaching, research, and service to make a true difference
and have a profound impact on the people and communities that we work with. Overall,
our talented, caring faculty are the drivers of our journey to take our department
to the next level, together.

Faculty List

Social Justice and Determinants of Health:

Our department has the legacy of a strong, rich history, which is the foundation for
our high-quality, rigorous, and relevant programs from career-oriented, social justice,
and the social determinants of health perspectives. We are all committed to respectfully
embracing, nurturing, and celebrating the diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) of
people and its perspectives and actions.

Degrees Offered