BACHELOR OF ARTS IN SPANISH

Explore
the varied cultures and literatures of the Hispanic World with a Bachelor of Arts in Spanish degree at University of Redlands.

DEGREES OFFERED

Bachelor of Arts

PROGRAM TYPES

Undergraduate, Major, Minor

MODE OF STUDY

On Campus

DEPARTMENT

SCHOOL / COLLEGE

WHAT IS A SPANISH DEGREE?

In the Bachelor of Arts in Spanish program you will learn to speak a language used by more than 400 million globally. You will explore the varied cultures and literatures of the Hispanic World as well as emphasize the proper use of the Spanish language. This program will teach you to use critical thinking to perceive complexity and divergence in cultures through a rich interdisciplinary liberal arts approach. This degree prepares you for graduate studies, Spanish history- and culture-related careers, and specialization in the language that will serve you in all career fields.

WHY SHOULD YOU MAJOR IN SPANISH AT REDLANDS?

The Spanish program at University of Redlands offers students exposure and practice with Spanish literature, culture, and language. You will develop skills in critical thinking, communication, and interpretation taught by a diverse faculty of passionate scholars and teachers in small, intimate classes where you will receive 1:1 mentoring. To immerse yourself in your studies and put into practice the skills you've acquired, there are study abroad opportunities in Spanish-speaking countries as well as internship opportunities at local organizations. By knowing the Spanish language and the cultural nuances of Spanish speakers, you will stand out in the job market, no matter what field you enter.

For students dedicated to their Spanish studies, there is a Spanish honor society, Sigma Delta Pi; this honor society is the largest foreign-language honor society in existence and offers a growing scholarship program exclusively for its active members. Additionally, Sigma Delta Pi offers research grants for graduate students and annual awards recognizing outstanding academic achievement and service. If you are interested in membership to Mu Iota, U of R's Sigma Delta Pi chapter, contact the faculty advisor at:
liesder_mayea@redlands.edu
.

CLASSES YOU'LL TAKE

A major in Spanish consists of 44 credits beyond SPAN 201–202. Spanish majors may choose an emphasis in Latin American or Spanish literature, culture, and civilization. At least 30 credits must be in prescribed courses other than individualized study, and at least 28 of these credits must be earned at the University of Redlands.

To view specific program requirements and coursework information, visit the
current university catalog
.

THE MAJOR REQUIRES COMPLETION OF:

• SPAN 301–302 or equivalent, except for students who start at the fourth year level.
• SPAN 424
• Take one group: 8 credits from SPAN 426–427 or 436–437
• Additional Courses include: SPAN 425 or 435, 458, 459
• Three additional 400 level Spanish courses
Students who plan to major in Spanish should discuss their programs of study with faculty advisors as early as possible.

WHY SHOULD YOU MINOR IN SPANISH AT REDLANDS?

The Spanish minor offers you a strong understanding of the subject
and consists of a completing 24 credits beyond SPAN 202
.

COMPLETION REQUIREMENTS:

A minor in Spanish consists of 24 credits beyond SPAN 202. Requirements: SPAN 301–302 or equivalent (except for students who start at the fourth year level*), plus four additional courses at the 400 level. At least 12 of these credits must be earned at the University of Redlands.

*Students placed at 400-level must complete six courses at the 400-level.

Advanced Placement and international baccalaureate

• Spanish Language: Students receiving a score of three on the Advanced Placement Test or a score of five or six in an International Baccalaureate higher-level course (Lang-B) will receive 4 credits; those who score four or five on the Advanced Placement Test or seven in an International Baccalaureate high-level course (Lang-B) will receive 8 credits toward the major or 8 credits for graduation.
• Spanish Literature: Students with scores of four or five on the Advanced Placement Test or a seven in an International Baccalaureate higher-level course (Lang-B) will receive 8 credits toward the major or 8 credits for graduation.
View the
current university catalog
to learn more about course requirements.

Early Action 1: November 1
Early Action 2: December 1
Regular Decision: January 15*

FIND US ON CAMPUS

Larsen Hall

WHAT YOU'LL LEARN

WHAT YOU'LL LEARN

GRADUATES PURSUE CAREERS AS

GRADUATES PURSUE CAREERS AS

THE CORE FOUR FRAMEWORK

At Redlands, our students’ success is at the heart of everything we do. We offer experiential learning opportunities, but our CORE Four initiative takes that commitment to a deeper, intentional level. More than a set of experiences, the CORE Four is a framework for transformation. Learn more about how students can prepare for their academic journey.

of University of Redlands B.A. in Spanish graduates have successful outcomes within six months of graduation.

First Year Destination Survey, 2023

Alumni shared they gained critical thinking skills from their degree.

NACM Alumni Career Mobility, 2022

Best Universities in the West

U.S. News & World Report, 2023

The University of Redlands offers many ways to prepare you for life after graduation.

WANT TO KNOW MORE?

Get in touch with our admissions team.