WELCOME TO BIOLOGY AT SSU!

The Department of Biology offers a dynamic learning environment, exciting research and training opportunities and intensive mentoring of students at all levels. Our faculty are not only dedicated educators but also active scholars who engage in primary research to address diverse topics in the biological sciences.

The overall mission of our undergraduate and graduate programs is to educate the next generation of scholars, professionals and citizens so that they are prepared to meet the biological, environmental and technological challenges of the future.

Areas of educational and research activities include ecology, conservation and evolutionary biology, genetics, molecular and cell biology, and physiology.

Please feel free to contact any of the department
faculty or staff
if you have questions about our programs, or email
biology@sonoma.edu
.

Springtime around Darwin Hall

FOLLOW US ON THE SOCIALS!

THE WEST COAST BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES UNDERGRADUATE RESEARCH CONFERENCE

The
West Coast Biological Sciences Undergraduate Research Conference
(
WCBSURC
) held its 49th event at Sonoma State University on April 11, 2026. It was a huge success, thanks to
Dr. Lisa Hua
of the
SSU Biology Department
and the
Office of Research and Sponsored Programs
. Dr. Hua and her core team -
Dr. Brent Hughes
,
Dr. Shannon Lee
and
Dr. Nathan Rank
, began organizing in April 2025, one year earlier. Undergraduate science students and their mentors came from all over the country to present and share their research:

Students participating in the poster presentations at the WCBSURC at SSU April 11, 2026.

Students participating in the poster presentations at the WCBSURC at SSU April 11, 2026.

SSU President Spagna speaking at the WCBSURC, April 11, 2026.

Student speaker at the WCBSURC, April 11, 2026.

Students participating in the poster presentations at the WCBSURC at SSU April 11, 2026.

Keynote Speakers Dr. Elizabeth Dahlhoff (Santa Clara University Biology), and Dr. Nathan Rank (SSU Biology).

Students participating in the poster presentations at the WCBSURC at SSU April 11, 2026.

Dr. Lisa Hua, Dr. Brent Hughes, Dr. Shannon Lee, Dr. Nathan Rank, and SSU President Michael Spagna

Artistic signage for the WCBSURC April 11, 2026.

Student speaker at the WCBSURC, April 11, 2026.

Award recipients at the WCBSURC April 11, 2026.

More award recipients at the WCBSURC April 11, 2026

Office of Research and Sponsored Programs Staff representing at the WCBSURC April 11, 2026

Audience listens to SSU President Michael Spagna at the WCBSURC April 11, 2026

From Dr. Lisa Hua, Chief Organizer of the WCBSURC at SSU:

"Sonoma State University successfully hosted the 2026 West Coast Biological Sciences Undergraduate Research Conference (WCBSURC), marking it as the largest conference in the event’s history. With over 550 participants from more than 55 institutions across California and 16 additional states, the conference demonstrated significant growth in both scale and geographic reach. As highlighted in SSU News, SSU's Department of Biology and the Office of Research and Sponsored Programs (ORSP) effectively brought together a diverse community of undergraduate researchers, reinforcing its leadership role in supporting biology education and collaboration. Overall, the record-breaking attendance and broad participation reflect SSU’s strong organizational capacity and its impact in advancing undergraduate research on a national level."

Thank you the organizing team, Drs. Hua, Hughes, Lee and Rank. Thank you also to Dr. Mackenzie Zippay, Dr. Derek Girman and Dr. Nicholas Geist. Thank you to the students in the Hua Lab and ALL our Grad students who helped! Special shout out to Emily Porter, Gabrielle Utarid, Lisa Moore and Malinalli Lopez - thank you for all your help! And thank you to SSU Conferences and Events, Facilities, Culinary Services and everyone who played a role in the success of this event!

Photo Credit: Mars Cologna

IMPORTANT SSU LINKS