HOME

NEWS & ADMISSIONS UPDATES

COME VISIT US

We are excited to welcome you to our beautiful campus! The Visitor Center (VC) is open for a variety of visit options; check out our
Events & Visits webpage
for more information.

REGISTER FOR FIRST-YEAR & TRANSFER WEBINARS

Check out our
admissions webinars
for first-year and transfer applicants to navigate through the admission process. We have webinars for prospective students and current applicants!

GET READY FOR DECISIONS

First-year admission decisions and financial aid unofficial award letters are posted in the
Applicant Portal
. Transfer applicant decisions will be shared in late-April.

WHAT'S NEXT FOR APPLICANTS

The
Applicant Portal
is open. Review our
What's Next page
while you wait for UC decisions.

CAMPUS VIDEO

View our campus overview video to learn more about our campus, academics, student life, athletics, and more.

Visit our
YouTube channel
for access to a variety of playlists—including tutorials,
Major Spotlights videos
, and more.

FIRST-YEAR

Graduating high school soon? Amazing! We'll let you know how to get started on applying to UCSB as a first-year.

First-Year Applicants

TRANSFER

Learn about junior-level transfer requirements and the transfer experience at UCSB.

Transfer Applicants

INTERNATIONAL

Get information on applying to UCSB as an international first-year or transfer student.

International Applicants

EXPLORE ADMISSIONS

Frequently Asked Questions

Majors

Dates & Deadlines

Student Life

Meet Your Admissions Counselor

Santa Barbara Area

#13

Top Public School

The U.S. News & World Report ranked UC Santa Barbara as the No. 13 public university in the country among the best higher education institutions in 2025.

23,232

undergraduates

UCSB has far more undergraduates than graduate students, meaning undergraduates can be involved in faculty projects that would normally involve graduate students at other campuses.

8

faculty Nobel prizes

Our faculty include eight Nobel Laureates for chemistry, physics, and economics. Will you be next?

17:1

student-to-faculty ratio

Our student-to-faculty ratio of 18:1 means you can interact with your professors in classes, office hours, research collaborations, and more.

CAMPUS QUICK LINKS

Housing, Dining, & Auxiliary Enterprises
UCSB Housing

Office of Financial Aid & Scholarships
Cost of Attendance Calculator

UCSB Communities
Communities

Student Engagement and Leadership
Student Organizations List

College of Letters & Science
Letters and Science

College of Engineering
Engineering

College of Creative Studies
Creative Studies

Summer Sessions
FSSP & Transfer Edge

The University campus is located on Indigenous land. In recognizing the traditional custodians of the land, we pay respect to the Chumash people, the history and culture of the community, and all Native Americans as America’s First Peoples. We pay respect to the Chumash Elders past, present and future for they hold the memories, the traditions, and the culture of this area, which has become a place of learning for people from all over the world.