WANT TO MAKE THE WORLD BETTER? LET’S GO.

HOW OUR NEW STUDENTS SEE THE WORLD

want climate change to be a federal priority

are likely to participate in volunteer or community service work

value helping others who are in difficulty

TESTIMONIALS

I went from being just another student who cared, to one who had a simple and powerful way to help end hunger.

DISCOVER ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS THAT MATTER

We know we must dig for the truth. Work tirelessly to overcome obstacles. And keep trying until we create change. Like giving hope to the homeless. Shedding light on the climate crisis. And inspiring inclusiveness through art. And knowledge is where it all begins.

FIND COMMUNITY, SUPPORT AND COLLABORATION

You relish exploring new perspectives. Making meaningful connections. Engaging with others who are eager to learn and grow. And discovering resources that will uplift and support you on your unique journey.

TESTIMONIALS

Choosing UCLA meant that I didn’t have to make any compromises. It has awesome academics, vibrant student life, amazing professional and personal resources, and a beautiful campus — everything I could hope to have as part of my college experience.

GET A FEEL FOR CAMPUS

This aerial shot of UCLA captures everything from the Hill, where students live, to sports facilities to the standout architecture and landscaping found throughout campus.

Royce Hall was one of UCLA’s four original buildings. Today, its 1,800-seat concert hall auditorium serves as the university’s main performing arts facility.

Janss Steps, first known as “the 87” after the number of steps leading up to Dickson Plaza, served as the original entrance to the university.

The main undergraduate library on campus, Powell Library offers students a wealth of services, spaces, collections and programs that promote student learning.

Students move along Janss Steps and enjoy the sun on Wilson Plaza where, in 1965, Martin Luther King, Jr., spoke to a crowd of 5,000 students and faculty.

The iconic bronze statue known as The Bruin stands in the heart of campus across from John Wooden Center, one of UCLA’s 16 recreational and athletic facilities.

Pauley Pavilion is UCLA’s renowned venue for sporting events, concerts, debates and other popular events, including rock and pop concerts by legendary performers.

The Court of Sciences is home to the "Bombshelter", an informal counter-serve café with outdoor seating that’s great for studying or meeting up with classmates.

The Evelyn and Mo Ostin Music Center includes a high-tech recording studio, a digital music production center and spaces for rehearsal and teaching.

Students head to and from north campus by passing under Bunche Hall, named after Ralph J. Bunche ’27, the first African-American to win the Nobel Peace Prize.

Kerckhoff Hall, which served as UCLA’s first student union building in 1931, is home to Kerckhoff Coffee House, student government and the
Daily Bruin
.

Saxon Suites on the Hill offers students furnished two-bedroom suites along with a shared barbecue area. Meal service and recreation facilities are nearby.

IMPORTANT INFORMATION