BIOCHEMISTRY MAJOR

Request Information

• Home
• >
• Programs
• >
• Biochemistry Major

STUDY BIOCHEMISTRY AT AZUSA PACIFIC UNIVERSITY

Stand out when applying for graduate programs or professional research positions.
You’ll graduate equipped with a deep understanding of biological and chemical principles
and hands-on experience with cutting edge instrumentation. You will have the opportunity
to conduct research with faculty, enhancing your lab training and  application of
scientific principles. We’ll help you tailor your program to your career goals. You’ll
choose between a focus on Pre-Health Professions with advanced study of genetics and
physiology  or Research with advanced study of molecular biology and physical chemistry.

PROGRAM AT A GLANCE

UPCOMING EVENTS

APU One Day

• Saturday, June 13, 2026
• Saturday, July 11, 2026

APPLICATION DEADLINE

We are rolling admission.

Apply Now

PROGRAM INFORMATION

• Program Units: 72-77

LOCATION

• Azusa (Main Campus)
Yellow Ribbon and Military Friendly School

GAIN HANDS-ON EXPERIENCE

• Hands-on, practical training in laboratory and research techniques.
• Direct access to and training on start-of-the-art instrumentation.
• Conduct research with faculty or secure an internship in the field.
• Deepen an understanding of scientific principles, from general biology and chemistry
 to biomolecular chemistry and metabolism.
• Integrate faith with your life and scientific discipline.

BY THE NUMBERS

GET STARTED

TIFFANY NAKLA: CONNECTING MY FAITH AND SCIENCE

As Tiffany Nakla ’22 studied biochemistry and participated in research opportunities,
her understanding of God deepened as she learned more about the intricacies of creation.

Read More About Tiffany

PROGRAM DETAILS

The Bachelor of Science in Biochemistry provides a rigorous curriculum and strong
foundation in core chemistry and biology courses, with the option of the Pre-Health
Professions Emphasis or the Research Emphasis. Additional course requirements provide
a foundation in related fields (physics and mathematics), as well as breadth to the
study of biochemistry. The Pre-Health Professions Emphasis involves additional focus
on genetics and physiology, with options to study anatomy, neurobiology, and advanced
chemistry topics. This emphasis provides excellent preparation for graduate and professional
studies in a variety of health fields, including but not limited to medicine, dentistry,
optometry, chiropractic medicine, veterinary science, and pharmacy. The Research Emphasis
involves additional focus on physical chemistry and molecular biology, with options
to study other advanced chemistry and biology topics. This emphasis provides excellent
preparation for entry-level positions as a researcher or laboratory technician, and
for graduate studies in fields such as, but not limited to, biochemistry, molecular
biology, pharmacology, biotechnology, food science, forensic science, and environmental
science. Students who attend graduate school and obtain a master’s or doctoral degree
may find employment at a university or in the private or government sectors.

Browse the tabs below—if you have questions, visit the
Student Services Center
page, and we’ll make sure you get the info you need.

GENERAL UNDERGRADUATE ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS

Select an option below:

• First-time Freshman
• Transfer
• International

REQUIREMENTS FOR ALLIED HEALTH, BIOCHEMISTRY, BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES, AND CHEMISTRY MAJORS

While the Department of Biology and Chemistry does not cap enrollment in these majors,
students are expected to demonstrate certain levels of achievement (detailed below)
to enter and remain in these majors.

FRESHMAN APPLICANTS

To qualify for a major in allied health, biological sciences, biochemistry, or chemistry,
freshman applicants must submit documentation of the following (or their equivalents)
and indicate their choice for one of those majors to the
Office of Undergraduate Admissions
before the start of classes. After that date, the requirements in the Matriculated
APU Students section (below) must be met.

• High school GPA of 3.0+
• At least three years of high school math (an average of C- or better across all three years) or SAT Math score of 530+ or ACT Math score of
 21+
• At least 2 years of high school science (with a B or better in either biology or chemistry)

TRANSFER APPLICANTS

To qualify for a major in allied health, biological sciences, biochemistry, or chemistry,
transfer applicants must submit documentation of the following (or their equivalents)
and indicate their choice for one of these majors to the
Office of Undergraduate Admissions
before the start of classes. After that date, the requirements in the Matriculated
APU Students section (below) must be met.

• Community college/university GPA of 2.8+
• Completion of Intermediate Algebra or higher ( C- or better)
• Completion of a one-semester science course ( C- or better, biology or chemistry course recommended)

MATRICULATED APU STUDENTS

To qualify for a major in allied health, biological sciences, biochemistry, or chemistry,
matriculated APU students must submit evidence of all of the following:

• Completion of BIOL 151 or CHEM 151 (C- or higher)
• Completion of MATH MATH 95 , current ALEKS score of 45+, SAT Math score of 530+, or ACT Math score of 21+
• Completion of prospective major advising in the Department of Biology and Chemistry

DEPARTMENT POLICIES

The following are policies that apply to all students in courses offered by the department:

• A student must complete all prerequisites for a BIOC, BIOL, or CHEM course with a C- or better before taking the course (except as noted in the course description).
• Students with a total of three unsuccessful attempts (below C- ) in any combination of BIOC, BIOL, and CHEM courses will be automatically dropped
 from subsequent enrollment in department courses.
• Any single BIOC, BIOL, or CHEM course may only be taken two times at APU.
• Students may not earn a chemistry minor if they are majoring in biochemistry, nor
 may they earn a biology minor if they are majoring in allied health or biochemistry.
• Students missing more than three labs in a course receive an automatic F in the course.
• Courses with labs in an online or correspondence format are not allowed to transfer
 as BIOC, BIOL, or CHEM courses.

ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ALLIED HEALTH, BIOCHEMISTRY, BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES, AND
 CHEMISTRY MAJORS

All of the following requirements must be met to continue as an allied health, biological
sciences, biochemistry, or chemistry major. Failure to maintain these requirements
will result in a student being dropped from the major. Reentry to the major is by
petition only.

• A minimum cumulative GPA of 2.0 in all biological sciences, chemistry, biochemistry,
 math, and physics courses required for the major must be maintained.
• A student must complete each BIOC, BIOL, or CHEM course with a C- or higher for the course to meet a degree requirement in the Department of Biology
 or Chemistry.
• Any single class within the major can only be taken two times at APU; students must
 change to a major outside the department after two unsuccessful (below C- ) attempts in a single required course.
• Only two courses total within the major can be repeated; students must change to a
 major outside the department after unsuccessful (below C- ) attempts in any three required courses.
• All majors are required to take BIOL 496 to meet their general education Senior Seminar or Writing 3 requirement.
• While courses required of the major may be taken at other accredited institutions,
 subject to approval via a transfer inquiry form, both lecture and laboratory components
 must be taken at the same institution in the same semester.
• It is strongly recommended that freshmen in all biological sciences majors (including
 biochemistry) take General Chemistry I ( CHEM 151 ) and General Biology I ( BIOL 151 ) the first year, and that chemistry majors start with General Chemistry I ( CHEM 151 ) and Calculus I ( MATH 165 ) the first year. Should math placement assessment require algebra of the student,
 then that class should be taken the first year and a five-year program may be indicated.
• BIOL 151 should be taken by allied health, biochemistry, or biological sciences majors who
 receive AP biology credit. Many medical schools and graduate programs will not accept
 AP biology to meet requirements for admission. AP credit for BIOL 151 will be given only with approval of the chair of the Department of Biology and Chemistry.
• Students may take a maximum of 3 units total from BIOL 390 , BIOL 391 , BIOL 490 , BIOL 497 , or BIOL 498 a for elective credit toward the BS in Allied Health or the BS in Biological Sciences.
The following courses may not be taken to meet upper-division elective requirements
in any major in the department:

• BIOL 325 Humans and the Environment (4 units)
• BIOL 330 Gender Differences (3 units)
• BIOL 400 Science and Children (4 units)
• BIOL 470 Science for the MCAT (1 unit)
For more information, contact the
Student Services Center
at (626) 815-2020.

SCHOLARSHIPS AND GRANTS

Scholarships
and
grants
are considered gift aid, meaning they do not require repayment. These awards may
come from federal, state, institutional, or private sources. Scholarships are often
merit-based and awarded for academic achievement, leadership, or other demonstrated
talents.

While APU does award scholarships, you can also find external scholarship opportunities
through websites such as
Finaid
and
Fastweb
. Contact the
Student Services Center
about scholarships offered through APU departments or local organizations.

STUDENT EMPLOYMENT

Along with gift aid and student loans, you can apply for
on-campus student employment
opportunities to earn additional income to pay for education-related expenses. As
an APU student, you can also find work off campus in the surrounding community.

MILITARY AND VETERANS BENEFITS

If you are a veteran, serve in the military, or qualify as a spouse or dependent,
you may access financial assistance
that helps cover the cost of tuition, housing, and books. As a
Yellow Ribbon and Military Friendly School
, APU offers the support and flexibility needed to help you complete your bachelor’s
degree.

NET PRICE CALCULATOR

We’re committed to helping you understand the value of the APU experience early in
the college search process. Once you’ve explored the financial aid opportunities available,
take the next step by estimating your cost to attend. The Net Price Calculator provides
a personalized estimate based on the information you share, so you can start planning
today!

Calculate Net Price

To view specific requirements and coursework information, visit the current academic
catalog:
Programs Requirements

Programs Requirements

Azusa Pacific University is accredited by the WASC Senior College and University Commission
(WSCUC).

CAREER OUTLOOKS AND OUTCOMES

FEATURED FACULTY

PHILIP COX

Associate Professor, Department of Biology and Chemistry

MATTHEW BEREZUK

Professor, Department of Biology and Chemistry

See All Faculty

CULTIVATING STEM LEADERS THROUGH RESEARCH AS AN R2 INSTITUTION

APU recently announced a $2 million investment in state-of-the-art equipment which
will enable faculty and students to conduct cutting edge research, further bolstering
APU’s status as the only CCCU institution to receive the prestigious Carnegie R2 designation.

Read the Article

RELATED PROGRAMS

BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES MAJOR

• Azusa
Available Concentrations:

Biological Systems, Ecological, Cellular and Molecular

CHEMISTRY MAJORS

• Azusa

HEALTHCARE ADMINISTRATION, MS

• Online
Available Concentrations:

Financial Management in Healthcare Syst., International Health, Quality and Innovation in Health Care