BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN HOSPITALITY, TOURISM, AND EVENT MANAGEMENT

The mission of the Hospitality, Tourism and Event Management department is to be a student-centered academic and professional environment dedicated to educating exceptional hospitality and tourism industry business leaders through experiential and personalized learning.

The program is designed to provide students with a core of business education and professional hospitality and tourism management knowledge. Students can choose to focus on an elective emphasis, including: hotel operations management; food and beverage management; conventions, meetings and event management, or tourism management. The department is committed to maximizing student exposure to industry leaders, career opportunities and student experiences involving notable hospitality companies. The Hospitality and Tourism Management department features the on-campus Vista Room, a student-run restaurant which serves as an experiential learning laboratory.

PROGRAM LEARNING OUTCOMES

• Critical Thinking: Students locate, organize and interpret data to solve problems and make decisions. Students synthesize information/data/concepts to create solutions or plans to address challenges. Students present, defend and advocate positions with an understanding of implications.
• Teamwork and Collaboration: Students create, utilize and participate in teams to achieve goals.
• Leadership : Students apply theoretical concepts and seek experience and knowledge to maximize potential.
• Communication: Students communicate effectively in both written and oral formats to different audiences.
• Ethics: Students examine ethical implications and understand the potential ramifications of actions.
• Hospitality: Students are aware of and empathetic to others in order to design and execute positive guest and employee experiences.

HOSPITALITY, TOURISM, AND EVENT MANAGEMENT (B.S.)
— 63 UNITS

• In addition to the core course program required of all Hospitality and Tourism Management majors, ECON 101 and ECON 102 must be completed before enrollment in certain core courses.
• Except in cases of credit by examination, no more than six units of the core requirements may be taken on a CR/NC basis.

MAJOR PREREQUISITES (6 UNITS)

CORE COURSES (51 UNITS)

GUIDED ELECTIVES (6 UNITS)

Select Two:

GENERAL EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS

Note: LD = Lower-Division; UD = Upper-Division.

FIRST-TIME STUDENT ROADMAP (4 YEAR)

The roadmaps presented in this Bulletin are intended as suggested plans of study and do not replace meeting with an advisor. For a more personalized roadmap, please use the
Degree Planner
tool found in your
Student Center
.

First-Time Student Roadmap

TRANSFER STUDENT ROADMAP (2 YEAR)

For students with an AS-T in
Business Administration
(2011).
Business Administration ADT Roadmap

For students with an AS-T in
Business Administration 2.0
(2021).
Business Administration ADT Roadmap

GENERAL ADVISING INFORMATION FOR TRANSFER STUDENTS

• Before transfer, complete as many lower-division requirements or electives for this major as possible.
• The following courses are not required for admission but are required for graduation. Students are strongly encouraged to complete these units before transfer; doing so will provide more flexibility in course selection after transfer. a course in U.S. History a course in U.S. & California Government
• a course in U.S. History
• a course in U.S. & California Government
For information about satisfying the requirements described in (1) and (2) above at a California Community College (CCC), please visit
http://www.assist.org
. Check any geographically accessible CCCs; sometimes, options include more than one college. Use ASSIST to determine:

• Which courses at a CCC satisfy any lower-division major requirements for this major;
• Which courses at a CCC satisfy CSU GE, US History, and US & CA Government requirements.
Remedial courses are not transferable and do not apply to the minimum 60 semester units/90 quarter units required for admission.

Additional units for courses that are repeated do not apply to the minimum 60 units required for upper-division transfer (for example, if a course was not passed on the first attempt or was taken to earn a better grade).

Before leaving the last California Community College of attendance, obtain a summary of completion of lower-division General Education units (IGETC or CSU GE Breadth). This is often referred to as a GE certification worksheet. SF State does not require delivery of this certification to Admissions, but students should retain this document for verifying degree progress after transfer.

Credit for Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, or College-Level Examination Program courses: AP/IB/CLEP credit is not automatically transferred from the previous institution. Units are transferred only when an official score report is delivered to SF State. Credit is based on the academic year during which exams were taken. Refer to the University Bulletin in effect during the year of AP/IB/CLEP examination(s) for details regarding the award of credit for AP/IB/CLEP.

Students pursuing majors in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) disciplines often defer 6-9 units of lower-division General Education in Areas C and D until after transfer to focus on preparation courses for the major. This advice does not apply to students pursuing associate degree completion before transfer.

TRANSFERRING FROM INSTITUTIONS OTHER THAN CCCS OR CSUS

Review SF State's lower-division General Education requirements. Note that, as described below, the four basic skills courses required for admission meet GE Areas 1A/A2, 1B/A3, 1C/A1, and 2/B4 in the SF State GE pattern. Courses that fulfill the remaining areas of SF State’s lower-division GE pattern are available at most two-year and four-year colleges and universities.

Of the four required basic skills courses, a course in critical thinking (1B/A3) may not be widely offered outside the CCC and CSU systems. Students should attempt to identify and take an appropriate course no later than the term of application to the CSU. To review more information about the 1B/A3 requirement, please visit
bulletin.sfsu.edu/undergraduate-education/general-education/lower-division/#AAEL
.

Waiting until after transfer to take a single course at SF State that meets both US and CA/local government requirements may be an appropriate option, particularly if transferring from outside of California.