HYDEIA WYSINGER, CLASS OF 2025, RECEIVES ST. CLARE MEDAL

ABOUT OUR PROGRAM

Religion involves the human search for ultimate meaning.

Not only a matter of belief, religion also is a primary mode for creating a sense of belonging and influences the entire scope of human societies, including ethical and political systems. Religious Studies engages the stuff of life and culture: faith and history, theology and ethics, texts and ritual, science and technology, art and literature, race, ethnicity and gender. We study
Christianity
and
Catholicism
, but also
Judaism
,
Islam
,
Buddhism
,
Hinduism
, and other traditions, including
atheism
, both local and global. In the Religious Studies Department, our teaching and research are suffused with a deep commitment to social justice and care for the earth itself. The study of religion intersects with virtually every other approach to understanding the world and ourselves.

As a double major in RS and Political Science, I am very interested in engaging with the intersection of the two fields; primarily in regards to the way religious beliefs can directly influence the political attitudes of both leaders and the general public alike.

FACULTY & STAFF

• Associate Professor James B. Bennett American Religious History
American Religious History

• Academic Department Manager Vicky Gonzalez 408-554-4547 | Kenna Hall 323F
408-554-4547 | Kenna Hall 323F

BEYOND THE CLASSROOM

RELIGIOUS STUDIES CONVERSATIONS

Faculty and students gather quarterly to discuss and reflect on a topic.

LIVING RELIGION COLLABORATIVE

Our aim is to connect students with local religious and spiritual practitioners and communities. We explore what religion is in and around our campus, what it does in the everyday lives of people, and what they do with religion and spirituality.

NEWS & EVENTS

OUR STORIES

• Ana María Pineda, RSM awarded the Peter Hinde CRISPAZ Peace Award
• A Living Church: Professor Elyse Raby’s Class Adapts to a Historic Papal Transition After Pope Francis’ unexpected death in 2025, Professor Elyse Raby reshaped her course into a real-time study of a Church in transition, giving students a front-row seat to history and earning recognition for her timely, dynamic teaching.
After Pope Francis’ unexpected death in 2025, Professor Elyse Raby reshaped her course into a real-time study of a Church in transition, giving students a front-row seat to history and earning recognition for her timely, dynamic teaching.

LIFE AFTER SCU

KELBY UEBELHOR '21

"With my SCU education, I have had the opportunity to pursue a master's in the philosophy of religion at Yale and will be further pursuing a PhD in philosophy at Fordham. I would not be where I currently am without the foundation set by SCU's Religious Studies Department. Outside of academics, the ideas I have been able to explore have been transformative, allowing me to see the world in new ways, often with better perspectives for engaging with it and others around me. I cannot praise the Department enough. I would recommend that all interested SCU students capable of at least minoring in religious studies do so."
June 2024

FOLLOW US ON SOCIAL MEDIA