BACHELOR OF ARTS IN JOURNALISM

The 45-unit Bachelor of Arts in Journalism prepares students for careers as effective, authentic communicators and thinkers across multiple media types and career paths.

Alongside key skills like research, reporting, interviewing, storytelling and publishing, Journalism majors engage a 12-unit Equity Core exploring cultural diversity, ethics, media law, and the social impact of journalism and media, Afterward, they move on to the Practicum, where they cover the SF State campus and community via our two student publications, in digital and print form. Finally, a Capstone experience, recommended for senior year, connects students with professional mentors and community publications to publish a culminating work of impactful journalism.

To ensure a rich, broad, varied educational experience, Journalism majors must complete a minor alongside their degree to fulfill the complementary studies requirement. This requirement complies with complementary studies standards established by the Accrediting Council on Education in Journalism and Mass Communications (ACEJMC). The Department of Journalism has been accredited by ACEJMC since 1967, marking a longstanding commitment to excellence in journalism education.

All Journalism courses are open for registration to majors other than Journalism.

VISION

Our vision
is for SF State Journalism students, among the nation’s most culturally and ethnically diverse, to reimagine journalism and media organizations as truly representative of a free, multicultural and open society.

MISSION

To empower students through education, experiential learning and community, equipping them with the skills, ethics and values to seek truth and hold power accountable with rigorous, inclusive journalism that fuels social change and reinforces a healthy democracy.
They learn to be accurate, credible, ethical and responsible to the communities they serve.

TRANSFER

Up to 12 units of lower-division coursework may be completed via equivalent courses at California community colleges. The equivalents of JOUR 205, JOUR 221, JOUR 226 and JOUR 235 may be completed at institutions with eligible transferrable courses.

ADVISING

Starting as first-year students, Journalism majors are encouraged to participate in major academic advising with a faculty advisor. After reaching upper division status, Juniors are notified to seek major academic advising in the Spring semester, with Seniors required to seek advising each Fall.

PROGRAM LEARNING OUTCOMES

• News Media Law : Apply principles and laws of freedom of speech and press, in a global context.
• History : Demonstrate an understanding of the multicultural history and role of professionals and institutions in shaping communications.
• Cultural Proficiency : Demonstrate culturally proficient communication that empowers those traditionally disenfranchised in society, especially as grounded in race, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation and ability, domestically and globally, across communication and media contexts.
• Visual Competence : Present images and information effectively and creatively, using appropriate tools and technologies.
• Writing : Write correctly and clearly in forms and styles appropriate for the communications professions, audiences and purposes they serve.
• Ethics: demonstrate an understanding of professional ethical principles and work ethically in pursuit of truth, accuracy, fairness and diversity.
• Critical Thinking and Research : Apply critical thinking skills in conducting research and evaluating information by methods appropriate to the communications professions in which they work.
• Use Data and Numbers : Effectively and correctly apply basic numerical and statistical concepts.
• Critical Evaluation : Critically evaluate their own work and that of others for accuracy and fairness, clarity, appropriate style and grammatical correctness.
• Appropriate Use of Technology : Apply tools and technologies appropriate for the communications professions in which they work.
• Core: Equity (12 Units)
• Core: Skills (15 Units)
• Advanced Courses (6 units)
• Electives (6 units)
• Practicum (3 units)
• Capstone (3 units)
• Skills Courses
• Complementary Studies

JOURNALISM (B.A.)
— 45 UNITS

CORE: EQUITY (12 UNITS)

CORE: SKILLS (15 UNITS)

ADVANCED COURSES (6 UNITS)

ELECTIVES (6 UNITS)

Select Two. Courses not used to satisfy a major requirement above may be used as electives:

PRACTICUM (3 UNITS)

Select One:

CAPSTONE (3 UNITS)

Select One:

SKILLS COURSES

Skills courses offered by the Department of Journalism impart the various skills and crafts necessary for the practice of journalism. There are three levels of skills courses: foundational, advanced, and capstone. The capstone skills courses provide students a culminating opportunity to integrate skills acquired in foundational and advanced courses, working and learning collaboratively. Journalism majors and minors must earn grades of C or better in all foundational, advanced, and capstone skills courses.

COMPLEMENTARY STUDIES

Twelve units of Complementary Studies are required of all candidates for the Bachelor of Arts degree in Journalism. Students completing the Bachelor of Arts in Journalism must complete a minor that has been approved by the department. The minor fulfills the Complementary Studies Requirement.

FIRST-TIME STUDENT ROADMAP (4 YEAR)

The roadmaps presented in this Bulletin are intended as suggested plans of study and do not replace meeting with an advisor. For a more personalized roadmap, please use the
Degree Planner
tool found in your
Student Center
.

First-Time Student Roadmap

TRANSFER STUDENT ROADMAP (2 YEAR)

Suggested path of study for transfer students.
Journalism Transfer Roadmap

For students with an AA-T in Journalism.
JOUR ADT Roadmap

GENERAL ADVISING INFORMATION FOR TRANSFER STUDENTS

• Before transfer, complete as many lower-division requirements or electives for this major as possible.
• The following courses are not required for admission but are required for graduation. Students are strongly encouraged to complete these units before transfer; doing so will provide more flexibility in course selection after transfer. a course in U.S. History a course in U.S. & California Government
• a course in U.S. History
• a course in U.S. & California Government
For information about satisfying the requirements described in (1) and (2) above at a California Community College (CCC), please visit
http://www.assist.org
. Check any geographically accessible CCCs; sometimes, options include more than one college. Use ASSIST to determine:

• Which courses at a CCC satisfy any lower-division major requirements for this major;
• Which courses at a CCC satisfy CSU GE, US History, and US & CA Government requirements.
Remedial courses are not transferable and do not apply to the minimum 60 semester units/90 quarter units required for admission.

Additional units for courses that are repeated do not apply to the minimum 60 units required for upper-division transfer (for example, if a course was not passed on the first attempt or was taken to earn a better grade).

Before leaving the last California Community College of attendance, obtain a summary of completion of lower-division General Education units (IGETC or CSU GE Breadth). This is often referred to as a GE certification worksheet. SF State does not require delivery of this certification to Admissions, but students should retain this document for verifying degree progress after transfer.

Credit for Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, or College-Level Examination Program courses: AP/IB/CLEP credit is not automatically transferred from the previous institution. Units are transferred only when an official score report is delivered to SF State. Credit is based on the academic year during which exams were taken. Refer to the University Bulletin in effect during the year of AP/IB/CLEP examination(s) for details regarding the award of credit for AP/IB/CLEP.

Students pursuing majors in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) disciplines often defer 6-9 units of lower-division General Education in Areas C and D until after transfer to focus on preparation courses for the major. This advice does not apply to students pursuing associate degree completion before transfer.

TRANSFERRING FROM INSTITUTIONS OTHER THAN CCCS OR CSUS

Review SF State's lower-division General Education requirements. Note that, as described below, the four basic skills courses required for admission meet GE Areas 1A/A2, 1B/A3, 1C/A1, and 2/B4 in the SF State GE pattern. Courses that fulfill the remaining areas of SF State’s lower-division GE pattern are available at most two-year and four-year colleges and universities.

Of the four required basic skills courses, a course in critical thinking (1B/A3) may not be widely offered outside the CCC and CSU systems. Students should attempt to identify and take an appropriate course no later than the term of application to the CSU. To review more information about the 1B/A3 requirement, please visit
bulletin.sfsu.edu/undergraduate-education/general-education/lower-division/#AAEL
.

Waiting until after transfer to take a single course at SF State that meets both US and CA/local government requirements may be an appropriate option, particularly if transferring from outside of California.