BACHELOR OF ARTS IN LATINA/LATINO STUDIES

The Bachelor of Arts in Latina/Latino Studies program provides students with a solid grounding in the theoretical approaches and methodologies that define the field. The program prepares students to pursue graduate and professional studies or to begin careers in the public or private sectors.

PROGRAM LEARNING OUTCOMES:

• To understand and identify the origins and context of diverse individual and group experiences of Latinas and Latinos in the United States.
• To develop an understanding of Latina/Latino Studies that is community-centered, reflexive, gender sensitive, and grounded in a multidisciplinary perspective.
• To assess the historical and contemporary experiences of Latinas and Latinos with special emphasis on gender and how gender structures identities, roles, and relationships both domestically and transnationally.
• To develop competency in the research and analysis of the personal, family, immigration, gender, and youth histories of Latinas/Latinos in the United States through the utilization of oral history and ethnographic theoretical perspectives and methodologies.
• To be able to make links between content in the Latina/Latino Studies curriculum and practice in the community.
• To develop an area of expertise and depth in Latina/Latino populations in the United States. In addition to the major's multidisciplinary foundation, we encourage students to sharpen their expertise in Latino demographics and one of the three broad areas of our departmental course offerings: #1 Arts and Humanities, #2 History, or #3 Behavioral and Social Science.
• To develop competency in writing skills relevant to Latina/Latino Studies and Ethnic Studies.

LATINA/LATINO STUDIES (B.A.)
— 33 UNITS

For the core courses, a passing grade of C- or better is required. For other LTNS courses, a passing grade is a D.

CORE COURSES (15 UNITS)

ELECTIVES (15 UNITS)

A minimum of three units are required from each of the 5 Focus Areas. Units may not be counted for multiple Focus Areas.

PERFORMANCE, ART, LITERATURE, & MEDIA

FEMINISMS, SEXUALITIES, & QUEER OF COLOR CRITIQUE

POLITICS, POLICY, LAW, & ECONOMICS

EDUCATION, HISTORY, & DECOLONIAL KNOWLEDGES

HEALTH, MIGRATION, & TRANSNATIONAL STUDIES

GRADUATION WRITING ASSESSMENT REQUIREMENT (3 UNITS)

The following courses may be taken for no more than 4 units towards the LTNS major:

LTNS 685
Projects in the Teaching of Latina/o Studies (1-4 units)

LTNS 690
Community Fieldwork in Latina/o Studies (3 units)

LTNS 694
Community Service Learning (3 units)

LTNS 707
Seminar in Latina/o Studies (3 units)

A minimum of 30 upper-division units must be completed for the degree (including upper-division units required for the major, general education, electives, etc.). A student can complete this major yet not attain the necessary number of upper-division units required for graduation. In this case, additional upper-division courses will be needed to reach the required total.

Students must complete at least 30 hours of service as part of a local community service learning internship in an LTNS course.

Nine transfer units in Latina/Latino Studies (or equivalent field) may count toward the Major.

GENERAL EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS

Note: LD = Lower-Division; UD = Upper-Division.

Graduate Writing Assessment Requirement (GWAR)

Students completing a Bachelor of Arts in Latina/Latino Studies fulfill their GWAR requirement through
ETHS 300GW
Writing in Ethnic Studies - GWAR or other approved GWAR course.

FIRST-TIME STUDENT ROADMAP (4 YEAR)

The roadmaps presented in this Bulletin are intended as suggested plans of study and do not replace meeting with an advisor. For a more personalized roadmap, please use the
Degree Planner
tool found in your
Student Center
.

First-Time Student Roadmap

SF STATE SCHOLARS ROADMAP

The San Francisco State Scholars program provides undergraduate students with an accelerated pathway to a graduate degree. Students in this program pursue a bachelor’s and master’s degree simultaneously. This program allows students to earn graduate credit while in their junior and/or senior year, reducing the number of semesters required for completion of a master’s degree.

Latina/Latino Studies BA + Ethnic Studies MA SF State Scholars Roadmap

Latina/Latino Studies BA + MPA SF State Scholars Roadmap

TRANSFER STUDENT ROADMAP (2 YEAR)

Students with an AA-T in
Social Justice Studies
.
SJS ADT Roadmap

for students with an AA-T in
Spanish
.
SPAN ADT Roadmap

THIS DEGREE PROGRAM IS AN APPROVED PATHWAY (“SIMILAR” MAJOR) FOR STUDENTS EARNING THE ADT IN SOCIAL JUSTICE STUDIES OR SPANISH

California legislation SB 1440 (2009) mandated the creation of the Associate Degree for Transfer (ADT) to be awarded by the California Community Colleges. Two types of ADTs are awarded: Associate in Arts for Transfer (AA-T) and Associate in Science for Transfer (AS-T).

Note: no specific degree is required for admission as an upper-division student. However, the ADT includes specific guarantees related to admission and graduation and is designed to clarify the transfer process and strengthen lower-division preparation for the major.

An ADT totals 60 units and in most cases includes completion of all lower-division General Education requirements and at least 18 units in a specific major. (The Biology, Chemistry, and Environmental Science AS-T degrees defer 3 units in lower-division GE area 3 and 3 units in lower-division GE area 4 until after transfer.) Students pursuing an ADT are guaranteed admission to the CSU if minimum eligibility requirements are met, though not necessarily to the CSU campus of primary choice.

Upon verification that the ADT has been awarded prior to matriculation at SF State, students are guaranteed B.A. or B.S. completion in 60 units if pursuing a “similar” major after transfer. Determinations about “similar” majors at SF State are made by faculty in the discipline.

Degree completion in 60 units cannot be guaranteed when a student simultaneously pursues an additional major, a minor, certificate, or credential.

A sample advising roadmap for students who have earned an ADT and continue in a "similar" major at SF State is available on the Roadmaps tab on the degree requirements page for the major. The roadmap displays:

• How many lower-division units required for the major have been completed upon entry based on the award of a specific ADT;
• Which lower-division requirements are considered complete upon entry based on the award of a specific ADT;
• How to complete the remaining 60 units for the degree in four semesters.
Students who have earned an ADT should seek advising in the major department during the first semester of attendance.

GENERAL ADVISING INFORMATION FOR TRANSFER STUDENTS

• Before transfer, complete as many lower-division requirements or electives for this major as possible.
• The following courses are not required for admission but are required for graduation. Students are strongly encouraged to complete these units before transfer; doing so will provide more flexibility in course selection after transfer. a course in U.S. History a course in U.S. & California Government
• a course in U.S. History
• a course in U.S. & California Government
For information about satisfying the requirements described in (1) and (2) above at a California Community College (CCC), please visit
http://www.assist.org
. Check any geographically accessible CCCs; sometimes, options include more than one college. Use ASSIST to determine:

• Which courses at a CCC satisfy any lower-division major requirements for this major;
• Which courses at a CCC satisfy CSU GE, US History, and US & CA Government requirements.
Remedial courses are not transferable and do not apply to the minimum 60 semester units/90 quarter units required for admission.

Additional units for courses that are repeated do not apply to the minimum 60 units required for upper-division transfer (for example, if a course was not passed on the first attempt or was taken to earn a better grade).

Before leaving the last California Community College of attendance, obtain a summary of completion of lower-division General Education units (IGETC or CSU GE Breadth). This is often referred to as a GE certification worksheet. SF State does not require delivery of this certification to Admissions, but students should retain this document for verifying degree progress after transfer.

Credit for Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, or College-Level Examination Program courses: AP/IB/CLEP credit is not automatically transferred from the previous institution. Units are transferred only when an official score report is delivered to SF State. Credit is based on the academic year during which exams were taken. Refer to the University Bulletin in effect during the year of AP/IB/CLEP examination(s) for details regarding the award of credit for AP/IB/CLEP.

Students pursuing majors in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) disciplines often defer 6-9 units of lower-division General Education in Areas C and D until after transfer to focus on preparation courses for the major. This advice does not apply to students pursuing associate degree completion before transfer.

TRANSFERRING FROM INSTITUTIONS OTHER THAN CCCS OR CSUS

Review SF State's lower-division General Education requirements. Note that, as described below, the four basic skills courses required for admission meet GE Areas 1A/A2, 1B/A3, 1C/A1, and 2/B4 in the SF State GE pattern. Courses that fulfill the remaining areas of SF State’s lower-division GE pattern are available at most two-year and four-year colleges and universities.

Of the four required basic skills courses, a course in critical thinking (1B/A3) may not be widely offered outside the CCC and CSU systems. Students should attempt to identify and take an appropriate course no later than the term of application to the CSU. To review more information about the 1B/A3 requirement, please visit
bulletin.sfsu.edu/undergraduate-education/general-education/lower-division/#AAEL
.

Waiting until after transfer to take a single course at SF State that meets both US and CA/local government requirements may be an appropriate option, particularly if transferring from outside of California.