Your Guide for College Financial Aid - Finaid
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to footer
Finaid
Financial Aid Information
Student Loans
Student Loans Home
Student Loans
Student Loan Consolidation
Student Loan Comparison
Parent Loans
Graduate Student Loans
Calculators
Calculators Home
Student Aid Index
Loan Payment
Loan Prepayment
Loan Consolidation
Expected Family Contribution
College Cost Projector
Scholarships
Scholarships Home
Winning Scholarships
Scholarship Scams
Scholarships for Average Students
FAFSA
FAFSA Home
Financial Aid Applications
Student Aid Index (SAI)
Expected Family Contribution
Award Letters
More…
Beyond Financial Aid
Educators and Administrators
Financial Aid Applications
Financial Aid FAQ
Military Aid
Other Types of Aid
Parents
Saving for College
Students
Fastweb.com
Search this website
Main Content
The Go-to Guide for College Financial Aid
Finaid has been a trusted guide to college financial aid for over 30 years, helping students and families navigate the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA), scholarships, grants, loans, and more. Start exploring today to make informed decisions about funding your education!
How to Get Financial Aid
Types of Financial Aid
Financial aid helps students and their families pay for college. It can cover a range of educational expenses, like tuition and fees, room and board, books and supplies, and transportation.
STUDENT LOANS
Student loans are funded by governments or private lenders.
SCHOLARSHIPS
Scholarships are essentially free money to pay for school.
GRANTS
Grants are given to students who demonstrate financial need.
WORK-STUDY
Program offers flexible part-time jobs around student schedules.
Popular Financial Aid Calculators
Finaid’s custom financial aid calculators can help you determine school costs, how much you’ll need to save, and the total financial assistance you’ll need.
Student Aid Index Calculator
The SAI is an estimate financial aid offices use to determine how much federal student aid a student would receive if they attended their particular school.
Prepayment Calulator
Learn the overall loan savings possibilities and loan term reduction that you can observe with extra payments, loan total adjustments, or various interest rates.
Loan Payment Calculator
See what your monthly loan payments will be and the salary you’ll need to comfortably make your loan minimum payments.
Financial Aid Calculators
What the Press Says
Make it your first stop. This site offers some of the best 'how to' guidance on securing financial aid.
Yahoo
It's a fabulous resource with calculators and other resources to help you figure out the best repayment method for you.
HuffPost Life
It's the hottest site on the Internet for financial aid tips.
New York Daily News
More FAFSA Information
The
FAFSA
is a form colleges, universities, and career schools use to award federal, state, and institutional or college-funded financial aid.
IRS Data Retrieval Tool
Simplify the prcoess by transferring your Federal tax return information into your FAFSA form.
Title IV Institution Codes
Learn all about the Federal School Code, why you need it and where to find it.
Student Aid Index
The FAFSA process has introduced the Student Aid Index (SAI) which supersedes the Expected Family Contribution (EFC) formula.
Footer
Quick Links
Your Guide for College Financial Aid
Student Loans
Calculators
Educators and Financial Aid Administrators
Military Aid
Scholarships
Parents
Fastweb.com – College Scholarships
Financial Aid Topics
Beyond Financial Aid
FAFSA
Financial Aid Applications
Other Types of Aid
Saving for College
Fastweb Student Loans
Get to Know Finaid
About Finaid
Answering Your Questions
FAQs about Financial Aid
Helping Students use Finaid.org
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Sitemap
Terms of Use
|
Your Privacy Choices
Copyright © 2026 · finaid.org