REPAYING STUDENT LOANS 101

ON THIS PAGE

ON THIS PAGE

Review important concepts, tips, and recommendations for repaying your student loans.

Who's this for?

Borrowers new to repayment or those who want a refresher

How long does it take to read?

10 minutes or less

TOP TIPS

• Review your student loan balance on your Dashboard .
Review your student loan balance on your
Dashboard
.

• Choose a repayment plan based on your income. Loan Simulator can help you decide which plan is right for you.
Choose a repayment plan based on your income.
Loan Simulator
can help you decide which plan is right for you.

• Visit your loan servicer’s website if you need help. Loan servicers are an important resource.
Visit your loan servicer’s website if you need help.
Loan servicers
are an important resource.

• Pay your student loans online through your loan servicer’s website. Tip: Set up auto pay to ensure on-time payments.
Pay your student loans online through your loan servicer’s website. Tip: Set up auto pay to ensure on-time payments.

• Review the various loan forgiveness options .
Review the various
loan forgiveness options
.

1. UNDERSTAND WHAT YOU OWE

• You can find your personal loan details through your loan servicer account and your StudentAid.gov account .
You can find your personal loan details through your
loan servicer account
and your
StudentAid.gov account
.

• You can find your monthly payment amount by logging in to your loan servicer’s website.
You can find your monthly payment amount by logging in to your loan servicer’s website.

• Don’t worry—the interest rate is fixed for most loans.
Don’t worry—the interest rate is fixed for most loans.

• If you see a term that you’re unfamiliar with, check out our financial aid dictionary .
If you see a term that you’re unfamiliar with, check out our
financial aid dictionary
.

You can find your loan balance by logging in to your
StudentAid.gov Dashboard
or your loan servicer’s website.

You can find your monthly payment amount on your loan servicer’s website or in your monthly bill. Most people opt for electronic delivery of their billing statement, which means you may need to log in to your servicer account to access it. Your loan servicer will send you your billing statement at least 21 days before your payment is due. Make sure your loan servicer has your most up-to-date contact info so that you don’t miss important messages about your payments.

Interest is additional money you pay as a cost of borrowing money. Interest is calculated as a percentage of the unpaid principal amount you borrowed.

Learn more about
how interest is calculated
and what fees are associated with federal student loans.

To find the interest rate of your loan(s),
log in to view your “My Aid” page
. Then scroll down to your Loan Breakdown and select “View Loans” under each servicer’s name. (You may have one or more loan servicers.)

2. REPAYMENT PLANS

• You can pick from repayment plans that base your monthly payment on your income or plans that give you a fixed monthly payment.
You can pick from repayment plans that base your monthly payment on your income or plans that give you a fixed monthly payment.

• Repayment plans based on your income are a smart choice to lower your payment. The lower your income—or the larger your family size—the less you'll pay per month.
Repayment plans
based on your income
are a smart choice to lower your payment. The lower your income—or the larger your family size—the less you'll pay per month.

• If you don’t pick a repayment plan, your loan servicer will place you on the Standard Repayment Plan (a 10-year fixed repayment plan). This plan may result in a higher monthly payment for you.
If you don’t pick a repayment plan, your loan servicer will place you on the Standard Repayment Plan (a 10-year fixed repayment plan). This plan may result in a higher monthly payment for you.

For more videos, check out our
student loan repayment video playlist
.

The repayment plans fall into two groups: fixed and income-driven repayment (IDR).

On a fixed payment repayment plan, your monthly payment is an amount that will pay off your loan entirely (including any interest that accrues) after a set number of years. On these plans, your monthly payment generally stays the same unless your principal balance changes.

IDR plans base your monthly payment on your income and family size, and what you still owe after a set number of years may be forgiven. You will likely have a lower monthly payment on an IDR plan.

Estimate your monthly payment under each plan by using
Loan Simulator
.

To sign up for an IDR plan, use the online
IDR application
. To sign up for a fixed repayment plan, contact your
loan servicer
.

If you don’t ask for a specific repayment plan before your loan goes into repayment, your loan servicer will place you on the Standard Repayment Plan, which may result in a higher monthly payment for you.

No. If you don’t pick a repayment plan, your loan servicer will place you on the Standard Repayment Plan. On the Standard Plan, you repay your loan(s) over 10 years. Your monthly payments on this plan are based on a 10-year schedule and not based on your income or your ability to pay. Your monthly payment on the Standard Plan will likely be higher than under an IDR plan, but you’ll accrue less interest over your repayment term.

3. MAKE A PAYMENT

• You make your payments to your loan servicer.
You make your payments to your loan servicer.

• Missing a payment has consequences , including becoming delinquent (late) and eventually defaulting on your debt.
Missing a payment has consequences
, including becoming delinquent (late) and eventually defaulting on your debt.

• If you can afford to make your payments, you should enroll in auto pay (also known as auto debit) so you don’t miss payments. Auto pay means that your servicer will automatically deduct your monthly payment from your bank account. You also will earn a discount through a lower interest rate.
If you can afford to make your payments, you should enroll in auto pay (also known as auto debit) so you don’t miss payments. Auto pay means that your servicer will automatically deduct your monthly payment from your bank account. You also will earn a discount through a lower interest rate.

You can pay your student loans through your account on your loan servicer’s website. Log in to see
your loan servicer contact info
.

In normal circumstances, your loan becomes delinquent if you don’t pay by your due date. Your loan typically defaults if you don’t pay for more than 270 days. Learn more about
federal student loan delinquency and default
. If you need a lower payment, consider
applying for an IDR plan
, which bases your monthly student loan payment amount on your income and family size. For some people, payments on an IDR plan can be as low as $0 per month.

Auto pay means your servicer will automatically deduct your monthly payment from your bank account. If you sign up for auto pay, you’ll pay 0.25% less in interest each month. Sign up for auto pay on your loan servicer’s website.

On auto pay, you'll get a reminder ahead of each withdrawal. You can contact your loan servicer if you ever need to pause auto pay for that month and set a custom payment amount.

Yes. Contact your loan servicer if making a payment on another date will work better for you.

4. IF YOU CAN’T AFFORD YOUR PAYMENTS

• You always have options if you can't pay. Don't wait to contact your loan servicer to discuss options.
You always have options if you can't pay. Don't wait to contact your loan servicer to discuss options.

• An IDR plan could lower your payment. If your income drops (for example, if you become unemployed), your payment could be as low as $0 per month.
An IDR plan could lower your payment. If your income drops (for example, if you become unemployed), your payment could be as low as $0 per month.

• You can request a temporary pause of payments (deferment or forbearance).
You can request a temporary pause of payments (deferment or forbearance).

You may be able to lower your monthly student loan payment by signing up for an IDR plan. Under an IDR plan, payments are based on your income and family size.
Apply for an IDR plan
and select the box to be placed on the repayment plan of your choice.

You can use
Loan Simulator
to see which repayment plan is right for you.

If you’re in a short-term financial bind, you can request deferment or forbearance. Both options allow you to temporarily pause your payments. But we always recommend looking into an IDR plan before requesting a deferment or forbearance, especially if there’s a long-term issue causing you to need a lower monthly payment. Some people can get payments as low as $0 a month on an IDR plan.

In most cases, interest continues to accrue (add up) while your loans are in deferment or forbearance. This means your balance will increase, and you’ll pay more over the life of your loan. Pausing your payments also means that repaying your loans (or reaching loan forgiveness) takes longer.

Learn more about
deferment and forbearance
.

5. LEARN ABOUT LOAN FORGIVENESS OPTIONS

There are several loan forgiveness options, but most programs have strict eligibility requirements. Student loans can be forgiven under programs such as the following:

• Public Service Loan Forgiveness for people who work for eligible government and nonprofit employers
Public Service Loan Forgiveness
for people who work for eligible government and nonprofit employers

• Teacher Loan Forgiveness for people who work in eligible teaching jobs
Teacher Loan Forgiveness
for people who work in eligible teaching jobs

• Income-driven repayment (IDR) forgiveness for people who repay their loans on an eligible IDR plan
Income-driven repayment (IDR) forgiveness
for people who repay their loans on an eligible IDR plan

• Total and permanent disability discharge for people with a disability that severely limits their ability to work
Total and permanent disability discharge
for people with a disability that severely limits their ability to work

Learn about other
loan forgiveness and discharge options
.

6. YOUR LOAN SERVICER, EXPLAINED

• We pay loan servicers to provide federal student loan support on behalf of the government at no cost to you.
We pay loan servicers to provide federal student loan support on behalf of the government at no cost to you.

• If you have issues managing your loans or making payments, your loan servicer can help you.
If you have issues managing your loans or making payments, your loan servicer can help you.

• The U.S. Department of Education’s office of Federal Student Aid still manages your student loan records and oversees the work done by loan servicers.
The U.S. Department of Education’s office of Federal Student Aid still manages your student loan records and oversees the work done by loan servicers.

Your student loan servicer works on behalf of the U.S. Department of Education to handle your federal student loan(s). This includes billing, responding to your questions, and helping you understand or change your repayment plan.

Sometimes, we need to transfer loans from one servicer to another. If we do transfer your loans to a new servicer, we (the U.S. Department of Education) still own your loans. The “transfer” to another servicer means that a new servicer will support you as you repay your loans fully.

Even if we transfer your loans to a new servicer, we (the U.S. Department of Education) still own your loans. The “transfer” to another servicer means that a new servicer will support you as you repay your loans fully.

Here’s
what happens when you get transferred
.

We use loan servicers to help you with your student loans. Servicers handle things like billing, responding to your questions, and helping you understand or change your repayment plan. They don’t make money on the payments you make, and they don’t benefit from the interest that accrues on your student loan debt. They simply administer your loans.

7. GET SUPPORT

When it comes to your student loans, you have options. Reach out for support if you need help making your payment or understanding your options.

• Email or chat with your loan servicer . Your loan servicer can help you with payments, repayment plans, and loan forgiveness programs. You can also call your servicer, but we recommend this option last.
Email or chat with your
loan servicer
. Your loan servicer can help you with payments, repayment plans, and loan forgiveness programs. You can also call your servicer, but we recommend this option last.

• Chat with Aidan ® , our virtual assistant, by selecting the owl icon in the lower right-hand corner of pages on this website. Aidan will provide quick answers to commonly asked questions. If you’re logged in, Aidan can pull up information about your loan(s).
Chat with Aidan
®
, our virtual assistant, by selecting the owl icon in the lower right-hand corner of pages on this website. Aidan will provide quick answers to commonly asked questions. If you’re logged in, Aidan can pull up information about your loan(s).

• Call, email, or chat with the Federal Student Aid Information Center . Representatives can help you with your StudentAid.gov account.
Call, email, or chat with the
Federal Student Aid Information Center
. Representatives can help you with your StudentAid.gov account.

• Find other personal finance resources from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau .
Find other personal finance resources from the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
.

ADDITIONAL LINKS