2025–26 FAFSA® Form
FAFSA
®
Form
 Free Application for Federal Student Aid
July 1, 2025 – June 30, 2026
FAFSA is a registered trademark of Federal Student Aid, U.S. Department of Education.
Use this form to apply free for federal and state student grants, work-study, 
and loans. Or apply free online at fafsa.gov .
Apply by the Deadlines
For federal aid, submit your application as early as possible, but no earlier than October 1, 2024. We must receive your 
application no later than June 30, 2026 . Your college must have your correct, complete information by your last day of enrollment 
in the 2025–26 school year.
For state or college aid, the deadline may be as early as October 1, 2024, and you may need to complete additional forms. Check 
with your high school counselor or a financial aid administrator at your college. See the state deadlines on page 2. If you are 
applying close to a deadline, we recommend you submit your FAFSA form online at fafsa.gov . It’s the fastest and easiest way to 
apply for aid.
Fill Out the FAFSA ® Form
The FAFSA form has five sections: Student, Student Spouse, Parent, Parent Spouse or Partner, and Preparer. To determine who 
needs to provide their information, consult “Who must provide information on the FAFSA form? ”, on page 3. 
You may fill the answer fields electronically and then print the form, or print the form first and complete it by hand. If you complete 
the form by hand, use dark ink and write clearly, as shown below. A computer will process this form; therefore: 
•
Fill in both circle and square answer fields completely: Correct Incorrect x    √   x    √ 
• For circle answer fields, choose only one response;
for square answer fields, choose all that apply:
• Print in BLOCK CAPITAL letters and skip a box between words;
for multi-line responses, wrap any incomplete words onto next line:
• Report dollar amounts such as $12,356.41 without cents;
if negative, completely fill the circle (   ) before the answer box:– 
1 4 1 6 P L U M S Continue on 
next line.
T A P T 4
– $ , 1 2 , 3 5 6
Refer to the notes on pages 21–22 as instructed. 
For help in filling out the FAFSA form, go to StudentAid.gov/fafsahelp  or call 1-800-4-FED-AID (1-800-433-3243). If you need 
assistance in another language, visit StudentAid.gov/apply-for-aid/fafsa/filling-out/request-interpreter .
Special Circumstances
If you or your family experienced significant changes to your financial situation (such as loss of employment or pay cuts), or other 
special circumstances (such as tuition expenses at an elementary or secondary school or high unreimbursed medical or dental 
expenses), complete and submit this form as instructed. Once you submit the form, discuss your special circumstances with the 
financial aid office at the college(s) you applied to or plan to attend.
Mail Your FAFSA ® Form
After you complete this application, make a copy of pages 7 through 20 for your records. Then mail the original of pages 7 through 20 to:
Federal Student Aid Programs, P.O. Box 70208, London, KY 40742-0208
Extra postage will be required. When mailing, include pages 7 through 20, even if some are blank. After your application is 
processed, you will receive a summary of your information in your FAFSA Submission Summary. If you provide an email address, 
your summary will be sent by email within three to five days. If you do not provide an email address, your summary will be mailed 
to you within three weeks. If you would like to check the status of your application, go to StudentAid.gov or call 1-800-433-3243.
1

2025–26
2025–26 FAFSA ® Deadlines
For federal aid, submit your FAFSA form as early as possible, but no earlier than October 1, 2024. For state or college aid, you 
may need to submit your FAFSA form as early as October 1, 2024, and you may need to fill out separate forms. See the list below. 
If you are filing close to a deadline, we recommend you file online at fafsa.gov . It’s the fastest and easiest way to apply for aid.
►
Unless otherwise noted, the dates below refer to when the form must be received.
Alabama (AL) Check with your financial aid office.
Alaska (AK) Alaska Education Grant: As soon as possible after Oct. 1, 2024. Awards 
made while funds exist. Alaska Performance Scholarship: For priority consideration, 
submit by June 30, 2025. Awards made while funds exist. 
American Samoa (AS) Check with your financial aid office. More forms may be required.
Arizona (AZ) Arizona Promise Program: For priority consideration, submit by April 1, 2025.
Arkansas (AR) Academic Challenge: July 1, 2025 . ArFuture Grant: fall term, July 1, 
2025; spring term, Jan. 10, 2026.
California (CA) For many state financial aid programs: March 3, 2025 (date 
postmarked). Cal Grant also requires submission of a school-certified GPA by 
March 3, 2025. For additional community college Cal Grants: Sept. 2, 2025 (date 
postmarked). For noncitizens without a Social Security card or with one issued 
through the federal Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, fill out 
the California Dream Act Application. Contact the California Student Aid Commission 
or your financial aid office for more information. 
Colorado (CO) Check with your financial aid office.
Connecticut (CT) For priority consideration, submit by Feb. 15, 2025. Check with your 
financial aid office. More forms may be required. 
Delaware (DE) June 15, 2025
District of Columbia (DC) For priority consideration, submit by June 25, 2025.  
DC Tuition Assistance Grant: For priority consideration, submit the DC OneApp and 
supporting documents by July 1, 2025. 
 
Federated States of 
Micronesia (FM) Check with your financial aid office. More forms 
may be required.
Florida (FL) May 15, 2025 (date processed)
Georgia (GA) Refer to Georgia Student Finance Commission’s website for more 
information. As soon as possible after Oct. 1, 2024. Check with your financial aid office. 
More forms may be required. 
Guam (GU) Check with your financial aid office. More forms may be required.
Hawaii (HI) Check with your financial aid office. More forms may be required.
Idaho (ID) Opportunity Scholarship: For priority consideration, submit by March 1, 2025. 
Check with your financial aid office. More forms may be required. 
Illinois (IL) Refer to the Illinois Student Assistance Commission’s website for the 
current Monetary Award Program (MAP) deadline dates. As soon as possible after  
Oct. 1, 2024. Awards made while funds exist.
Indiana (IN) Adult Student Grant: As soon as possible after Oct. 1, 2024. Awards made 
while funds exist. New applicants must submit additional form. Workforce Ready Grant: 
As soon as possible after Oct. 1, 2024. Frank O’Bannon Grant: April 15, 2025 
21st Century Scholarship: April 15, 2025
Iowa (IA) July 1, 2025; earlier priority deadlines may exist for certain programs. More 
forms may be required. 
Kansas (KS) For priority consideration, submit by April 1, 2025. Check with your 
financial aid office. More forms may be required. 
Kentucky (KY) As soon as possible after Oct. 1, 2024. Awards made while funds exist.
Louisiana (LA) July 1, 2026 (Feb. 1, 2025, recommended)
Maine (ME) May 1, 2025
Marshall Islands (MH) June 27, 2025. More forms may be required. 
Maryland (MD) Howard P. Rawlings Educational Excellence Awards (EEA): March 1, 2025 
Massachusetts (MA) For priority consideration, submit by May 1, 2025.
Michigan (MI) Michigan Competitive Scholarship and Michigan Tuition Grant: For 
priority consideration, submit by July 1, 2025.
Minnesota (MN) June 30, 2026
Mississippi (MS) MTAG and MESG Grants: Oct. 15, 2025. HELP Grant: April 30, 2025
Missouri (MO) For priority consideration, submit by Feb. 3, 2025. Applications accepted 
through April 1, 2025.
Montana (MT) For priority consideration, submit as soon as possible after Oct. 1, 2024. 
Check with your financial aid office. More forms may be required.
N. Mariana Islands (MP) For priority consideration, submit by April 30, 2025. More 
forms may be required.
Nebraska (NE) Check with your financial aid office.
Nevada (NV) Silver State Opportunity Grant: As soon as possible after Oct. 1, 2024. 
Awards made while funds exist. Nevada Promise Scholarship: May 1, 2025. More 
forms may be required. Awards made while funds exist. All other aid, check with your 
financial aid office. More forms may be required. 
New Hampshire (NH) Check with your financial aid office. More forms may be required.
New Jersey (NJ) Renewal applicants (2024–25 Tuition Aid Grant recipients): April 15, 
2025. All other applicants: fall and spring terms, Sept. 15, 2025; spring term only, 
Feb. 15, 2026.
New Mexico (NM) Check with your financial aid office.
New York (NY) June 30, 2026. More forms may be required. 
North Carolina (NC) For priority consideration, submit by June 1, 2025, if attending 
a UNC System institution; by Aug. 15, 2025, if attending a community college; or as 
soon as possible after Oct. 1, 2024, if attending a private institution. Awards made 
while funds exist.
North Dakota (ND) As soon as possible after Oct. 1, 2024. Awards made while funds exist.
Ohio (OH) Oct. 1, 2025
Oklahoma (OK) Check with your financial aid office.
Oregon (OR) Oregon Opportunity Grant: As soon as possible after Oct. 1, 2024. 
Awards made while funds exist. OSAC Private Scholarships: March 1, 2025. More 
forms may be required. Oregon Promise Grant: Contact state agency. More forms 
may be required.
Palau (PW) Check with your financial aid office. More forms may be required.
Pennsylvania (PA) All first-time applicants enrolled in a community college; business/
trade/technical school; hospital school of nursing; designated Pennsylvania open-
admission institution; or nontransferable two-year program: Aug. 1, 2025. All other 
applicants: May 1, 2025. More forms may be required. 
Puerto Rico (PR) Check with your financial aid office.
Rhode Island (RI) Check with your financial aid office. More forms may be required.
South Carolina (SC) SC Commission on Higher Education Need-based Grants: first 
come, first served; awards made while funds exist. SC Tuition Need-based Grants: 
Aug. 1, 2025, for SC independent institutions only.
South Dakota (SD) Check with your financial aid office. More forms may be required.
Tennessee (TN) State Grant: Prior-year recipients receive award if eligible and apply 
by March 15, 2025; all other awards made to neediest applicants. Awards made while 
funds exist. Tennessee Promise: March 15, 2025. State Lottery: fall term, Sept. 1, 2025; 
spring term, March 1, 2026; summer term, May 1, 2026.
Texas (TX) For priority consideration, submit by Jan. 15, 2025. More forms may be 
required. Private and two-year institutions may have different deadlines; check with 
your financial aid office.
U.S. Virgin Islands (VI) Check with your financial aid office. More forms may be required.
Utah (UT) Check with your financial aid office. Awards made while funds exist. More 
forms may be required.
Vermont (VT) As soon as possible after Oct. 1, 2024. Awards made while funds exist. 
More forms may be required.
Virginia (VA) As soon as possible after Oct. 1, 2024. Deadlines vary by institution; 
check with your financial aid office. Students who are ineligible for federal aid but meet 
state aid and residency requirements should instead complete Virginia Alternative 
State Aid Application. Check with your financial aid office.
Washington (WA) As soon as possible after Oct. 1, 2024. Check with your financial 
aid office.
West Virginia (WV) Promise Scholarship: March 1, 2025. New applicants must submit 
additional form. Contact your financial aid office or state agency. WV Higher Education 
Grant: April 15, 2025. WV Invests Grant: For priority consideration, submit by April 15, 2025.
Wisconsin (WI) Check with your financial aid office.
Wyoming (WY) Check with your financial aid office. More forms may be required.
2
2025–26 FAFSA® Deadlines2

2025–26
What is the FAFSA ®  Form?
Why fill out a FAFSA form?
The Free Application for Federal Student Aid  (FAFSA) is the first step in 
the financial aid process. You use the FAFSA form to apply for federal 
student aid, such as grants, work-study, and loans. In addition, most 
states and colleges use information from the FAFSA form to award 
nonfederal aid.
Why all the questions?
Most of the questions on the FAFSA form are required to calculate your 
Student Aid Index (SAI). The SAI measures your family’s financial strength 
and is used to determine your eligibility for federal student aid. The state 
and the colleges you list may also use some of your responses to determine 
if you may be eligible for state or school aid, in addition to federal aid.  
How do I find out my Student Aid Index (SAI)?
Your SAI will be listed on your FAFSA Submission Summary. This 
summary shows the information you submitted on your FAFSA form. It is 
important to review the summary to make sure all of your information is 
correct and complete. Make corrections or provide additional information, 
as necessary. 
How much student financial aid will I receive?
Using the information on your FAFSA form and your SAI, the financial 
aid office at your college will determine the amount of aid you will 
receive. The college will use your SAI to prepare a financial aid package 
to help you meet your financial need. Financial need is the difference 
between the cost of attendance (which can include living expenses), 
as determined by your college, and your SAI. If you are eligible for a 
Federal Pell Grant, you may receive it from only one college for the same 
period of enrollment.
When will I receive the student financial aid?
Any financial aid you are eligible to receive will be paid to you through 
your college. Typically, your college will first use the aid to pay tuition, 
fees, and housing and food (if provided by the college). Any remaining 
aid is paid to you for your other educational expenses. 
How can I have more colleges get my FAFSA information?
If you are completing a paper FAFSA form, you can list ten colleges in 
question 23. You may add more colleges by doing one of the following:
• After your FAFSA form has been processed, go to StudentAid.gov , log
in to the site, and follow the instructions for adding or changing schools.
• Use the FAFSA Submission Summary , which you will receive after
your FAFSA form is processed. Your Data Release Number (DRN)
verifies your identity and will be listed on the first page of the summary.
• Provide your DRN to the financial aid administrator at the college you
want added, and they can add their school code to your FAFSA form.
Note: If there are twenty school codes on your record, each new code 
will need to replace one of the original school codes listed. 
Where can I get more information on student financial aid?
The best place for information about student aid is the financial aid office 
at the college you plan to attend. The financial aid administrator can tell 
you about student aid available from your state, the college itself, and 
other sources. 
• You can also visit our website StudentAid.gov .
• For information by phone, you can call our Federal Student Aid
Information Center at 1-800-433-3243.
• You can also check with your high school counselor, your state aid
agency, or your local library’s reference section.
Information about other nonfederal assistance may be available from 
foundations, faith-based organizations, community organizations, and 
civic groups, as well as organizations related to your field of interest, 
such as the American Medical Association or American Bar Association. 
Check with your parents’ employers or unions to see if they award 
scholarships or have tuition assistance plans.
Completing the FAFSA ®  Form
Who must provide information on the FAFSA form?
The FAFSA form has five sections: Student, Student Spouse, Parent, 
Parent Spouse or Partner , and Preparer .
Student
The student must always complete the Student section.
Student Spouse
If the student’s current marital status, as indicated in question 3, is 
married or remarried, the student’s spouse must complete questions 25 
and 26 of the Student Spouse section. The spouse must also complete 
questions 27–29 if the student answered “No” to “Did or will the student 
file a 2023 joint tax return with their current spouse?”, in question 19.
Parent
The student’s parent must complete the Parent section if all of the 
following statements are true:
• The student was born after the year 2001.
• The student’s current marital status, as indicated in question 3, is
single (never married), divorced, separated, or widowed.
• The student’s college grade level, as indicated in question 4, will be
first-year, second-year, or other undergraduate.
• The student selected “None of these apply” in question 5, and
answered “No” in questions 6 and 7.
If all the above statements are true, the student is considered to be 
dependent, and the student’s parent must complete the Parent section, 
even if the student does not live with a parent (see “ Who is considered 
a legal parent on the FAFSA form? ” and “Which parent should include 
information ?”, on page 4).
If any of the above statements are not true, the student is considered to 
be independent , and parent information should not be provided.
If all the above statements are true, but the student answered “Yes” and 
selected “None of these apply” in question 6, or else answered “Yes” in 
question 7, the student is considered to be provisionally independent . 
In this case, the student should submit the FAFSA form with the Parent 
and Parent Spouse or Partner sections left blank and then contact the 
college’s financial aid administrator for further guidance.
Parent Spouse or Partner
If the student’s parent is required to provide information in the Parent 
section, and that parent’s current marital status, as indicated in question 
32, is married, remarried, or unmarried and both legal parents living 
together, the parent’s spouse or partner must complete questions 42 
and 43 of the Parent Spouse or Partner section. The parent’s spouse 
or partner must also complete questions 44–46 if the parent answered 
“No” to “Did or will the parent file a 2023 joint tax return with their 
current spouse?”, in question 37.
Preparer
If someone other than the student, student spouse, parent, or parent  
spouse or partner completed this form on the applicant’s behalf, that 
person must complete the Preparer section. Paid preparers are prohibited.
What is the FAFSA®  Form?  Completing the FAFSA®  Form
3
2025–26 FAFSA®Deadlines

2025–26
Completing the FAFSA ®  Form [continued]
Who is considered a legal parent on the FAFSA form?
Legal parents are biological or adoptive (regardless of gender), or as 
determined by the state (for example, if the parent is listed on the birth 
certificate). Grandparents, foster parents, legal guardians, widowed 
stepparents, aunts, uncles, and siblings are not considered parents on 
this form unless they have legally adopted the student.
Which parent should include information?
• If the student’s parent was never married and does not live with the
student’s other legal parent, or if the parent is widowed and not remarried,
that parent should only provide their own information in the Parent
section, and the Parent Spouse or Partner section should be skipped.
• If the parents are divorced or separated, answer the questions about
the parent who provides the greater portion of the student’s financial
support, even if the student does not live with them. If both parents
provided an exactly equal amount of financial support during the past
12 months, or if they don’t support the student financially, answer the
questions about the parent with the greater income and assets. If this
parent is remarried as of today, answer the questions about that parent
and the stepparent.
• If the student’s widowed parent is remarried as of today, answer the
questions about that parent and the stepparent.
• Contact 1-800-433-3243 for assistance completing questions 30–46 or
visit StudentAid.gov/fafsa-parent .
Can I skip any questions?
Some questions can be skipped in certain circumstances:
Student
Skip questions 7 and 8  if any of the following are true:
• The student was born prior to the year 2002.
• The student’s current marital status is married (not separated) or
remarried, as indicated by question 3.
• The student’s college grade level in 2025–26 will be “Master’s,
doctorate, or graduate certificate program,” as indicated in question 4.
• The student selected something other than “None of these apply” in
question 5.
• The student answered “Yes” in question 6.
Skip questions 
9, 10, 18, and 21 if all of the following are true:
• The student was born after the year 2001.
• The student’s current marital status is single (never married), divorced,
separated, or widowed.
• The student’s college grade level, as indicated in question 4, will be
first-year, second-year, or other undergraduate.
• The student selected “None of these apply” in question 5, and
answered “No” in questions 6 and 7.
For students whose FAFSA form does not require parent information:
Skip questions 21 and 22 if the student answered anything other than 
“None of these apply” on question 18.
For students whose FAFSA form does require parent information:
Skip questions 21 and 22 if the parent answered anything other than 
“None of these apply” on question 36.
Student Spouse
If student spouse information must be provided, skip questions 27–29 if 
the student answered “Yes” to “Did or will the student file a 2023 joint tax 
return with their current spouse?”, in question 19.
Parent
If parent information must be provided, then all questions in the Parent 
section must be answered.
Parent Spouse or Partner
If the information of the parent’s spouse or partner must be provided, skip 
questions 44–46 if the parent answered “Yes” to “Did or will the parent 
file a 2023 joint tax return with their current spouse?”, in que stion 37.
FAFSA ®  Privacy Act Statement
Authority: Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended 
(HEA) (20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq.), authorizes the Department of Education 
(Department) to ask the questions set forth in this Free Application 
for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA ®) form, including those collecting 
Social Security numbers (SSNs) from the aid applicant, the spouse of 
a married applicant, and the parent(s) of a dependent applicant. The 
collection of the SSNs is also authorized by Executive Order 9397, as 
amended by Executive Order 13478 (November 18, 2008).
Purpose: We use the information provided on the FAFSA form to 
determine eligibility for, and benefits under, federal student financial 
assistance programs authorized by Title IV  of the HEA. We use the 
SSNs of an aid applicant, the spouse of a married applicant, and 
the parent(s) of a dependent applicant to verify their identity and 
to retrieve their records from the Social Security Administration 
(SSA) for determining the applicant’s eligibility for federal student 
aid. With the authorization of the applicant and, where applicable, 
a participating parent(s) or spouse, state higher education 
agencies and institutions of higher education (IHEs) may also use 
FAFSA information to determine whether the applicant is eligible 
to receive state and institutional financial aid. Pursuant to section 
483 of the HEA (20 U.S.C. 1090), state higher education agencies 
and IHEs that participate in HEA Title IV programs have entered 
into agreements with the Department to receive information about 
the applicant, and, where applicable, a participating parent(s) or 
spouse, to determine need for financial aid programs provided by 
the state and IHEs. We also use FAFSA information to promote the 
application for HEA Title IV program assistance (including FAFSA 
form completion efforts), state assistance, and aid awarded by
eligible IHEs or by other entities that the Secretary of Education 
has designated pursuant to section 483(a)(3)(E) of the HEA  
(
 
 
20 U.S.C. 1090(a)(3)(E)) prior to July 1, 2024. We also may verify 
the accuracy of the information provided to the Department.
Routine Uses: The information provided on the FAFSA form will only 
be disclosed outside of the Department with prior written consent or 
as otherwise allowed by the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended (Privacy 
Act) (5 U.S.C. 552a). The Privacy Act’s  requirement for prior written 
consent has an exception for the “routine uses” that the Department 
publishes in our System of Records Notices (SORNs). The Department 
may, without consent, disclose FAFSA information pursuant to 
the routine uses identified in the “Aid Awareness and Application 
Processing” (18-11-21) SORN, which is available on the Department’s 
“Privacy Act System of Record Notice Issuances (SORN)” webpage 
located at https://www2.ed.gov/notices/ed-pia.html . 
These routine uses include the following:
• To verify the identity of the applicant, the spouse of a married
applicant, and the parent(s) of a dependent applicant; determine
the accuracy of the information contained in the record; support
compliance with HEA Title IV statutory and regulatory requirements;
Completing the FAFSA®  Form  Privacy Act Statement
4

2025–26
FAFSA ®  Privacy Act Statement [continued]  
and assist with the determination, correction, processing, tracking, 
and reporting of program eligibility and benefits, the Department 
may disclose FAFSA information to guaranty agencies, lenders and 
loan holders participating in the Federal Family Education Loan 
(FFEL) Program, IHEs, third-party servicers, and federal, state, 
local, or tribal agencies;
• Through June 30, 2025, disclosures may be made to state higher
education agencies, eligible IHEs, and other designated entities that
award and administer aid to students, to determine an applicant’s
eligibility for aid awarded by those parties.  Effective July 1, 2024,
under amendments to the HEA made by the FAFSA Simplification
Act (Public Law 116-260) and the FAFSA Simplification T echnical
Corrections Act (Public Law 117-103), and pursuant to section
483(a)(2)(D)(i) of the HEA (20 U.S.C. 1090(a)(2)(D)(i)), and with
the authorization of the applicant and, if necessary, the parents or
spouse of the applicant, disclosures may be made to state higher
education agencies, eligible IHEs, and scholarship organizations
designated by the Secretary of Education prior to December 19,
2019 (the enactment date of the FUTURE Act  [Public Law 116-
91]), as specified by the applicant and in accordance with section
494 of the HEA (20 U.S.C. 1098h), to determine an applicant’s
eligibility for federal, state, and institutional financial aid programs,
as well as for scholarship programs at designated organizations.
Effective July 1, 2024, under amendments to the HEA made by the
FAFSA Simplification Act  and the FAFSA Simplification T echnical
Corrections Act, and pursuant to section 483(a)(3)(B) (state higher
education agency) and 483(a)(3)(C) (IHE) of the HEA (20 U.S.C.
1090(a)(3)(B) and 1090(a)(3)(C)), disclosures may be made to state
higher education agencies and eligible IHEs for the administration
of federal, state, or institutional financial or scholarship aid awards;
• To encourage an applicant to complete a FAFSA form or to assist an
applicant with doing so, the Department may disclose an applicant’ s
FAFSA filing status to a local educational agency; a secondary school
where the applicant is or was enrolled; a state, local, or tribal agency;
or an entity that awards aid to students and that the Secretary of
Education has designated prior to the amendments of the HEA
made by the FAFSA Simplification Act  and the FAFSA Simplification
T echnical Corrections Act, which are effective July 1, 2024;
• If the Department determines that the disclosure of FAFSA
information is relevant and necessary to judicial or administrative
litigation or alternative dispute resolution (ADR), the Department
may, in certain circumstances and provided certain conditions
are satisfied, disclose such information to the U.S. Department of
Justice (DOJ); certain adjudicative bodies, persons, or entities; and
parties, counsel, representatives, or witnesses;
• In the event the FAFSA information indicates, either on its face or in
connection with other information, a violation or potential violation
of any applicable statute, regulations, or order of a competent
authority, the Department may disclose the relevant information
to the appropriate agency, whether federal, state, tribal, or local,
charged with the responsibility of investigating or prosecuting that
violation or charged with enforcing or implementing the statute,
Executive Order, rule, regulation, or order issued pursuant thereto;
• The Department may disclose FAFSA information to the Office of
Management and Budget (OMB) or the Congressional Budget Office
as necessary to fulfill Federal Credit Reform Act requirements in 
accordance with 2 U.S.C. 661b;
• The Department may disclose FAFSA information to appropriate
agencies, entities, and persons when (a) the Department
suspects or has confirmed that there has been a breach of the
“Aid Awareness and Application Processing” (18-11-21) system of
records; (b) the Department has determined that, as a result of the
suspected or confirmed breach, there is a risk of harm to individuals,
the Department (including its information systems, programs, and
operations), the federal government, or national security; and (c)
the disclosure made to such agencies, entities, and persons is
reasonably necessary to assist the Department’s efforts to respond
to the suspected or confirmed breach or to prevent, minimize, or
remedy such harm;
• The Department may disclose FAFSA information to another federal
agency or entity when the Department determines that information
from the “Aid Awareness and Application Processing” (18-11-21)
system of records is reasonably necessary to assist the recipient
agency or entity in (a) responding to a suspected or confirmed
breach or (b) preventing, minimizing, or remedying the risk of harm
to individuals, the recipient agency or entity (including its information
systems, programs, and operations), the federal government, or
national security, resulting from a suspected or confirmed breach;
and
• If the Department contracts with an entity to perform any function
that requires disclosing FAFSA information to the contractor’s
employees, the Department may disclose the information to those
employees. As part of such a contract, the Department shall require
the contractor to agree to establish and maintain safeguards to
protect the security and confidentiality of the disclosed information.
Effects of Not Providing Information:  Providing information on the 
FAFSA form, including an applicant’s SSN, is voluntary; however, if 
not enough information is provided to process an applicant’s FAFSA 
form, aid may be delayed or denied.
Opportunity to Access or Contest Tax Information:  If you have 
questions about or need to access your federal tax information used 
on this application, contact a financial aid administrator at your 
postsecondary institution. If your postsecondary institution does 
not provide you access to your federal tax information, contact the 
Ombudsman Office at ombudsman@ed.gov .
The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995: According to the Paperwork 
Reduction Act of 1995, no persons are required to respond to a 
collection of information unless such collection displays a valid OMB 
control number. The valid OMB control number for this information 
collection is 1845-0001. Public reporting burden for this collection of 
information is estimated to average one and a half hours per response, 
including time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data 
sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing 
and reviewing the collection of information. The obligation to respond 
to this collection is voluntary. For comments or concerns regarding 
the status of an individual’s submission of this form, write directly to 
the Federal Student Aid Information Center, P.O. Box 84, Washington, 
D.C. 20044. (Note: Do not return the completed form to this address.)
Privacy Act Statement
5
Completing the FAFSA®FormPrivacy Act Statement

2025–26
 Federal Tax Information (FTI) Consent and Approval
I consent to the disclosure of information about me, as described below, and further affirmatively approve of the receipt and use of my Federal tax 
information (FTI) and to the U.S. Department of Education’s redisclosure of my FTI, as described below. By accepting within the FAFSA form, I consent 
to and affirmatively approve of, as applicable, the following:
1.
The U.S. Department 
of Education may disclose my Social Security number (SSN)/Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN), last name, date of birth, unique
identifier, the tax year for which FTI is required, and the date and timestamp of my approval for the use of my FTI in determining eligibility by ED for which
approval is provided to the U.S. Department of the Treasury, Internal Revenue Service (IRS). I understand that in response to such a request from the
U.S. Department of Education, the IRS shall then disclose my FTI to “authorized persons” (i.e., specifically designated officers and employees of the U.S.
Department of Education and its contractors (as defined in 26 U.S.C. § 6103(l)(13)(E)) for the purpose of determining eligibility for, and the amount of,
Federal student aid under a program authorized under subpart 1 of part A, part C, or part D of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended,
for myself or an applicant for Federal student aid who has requested that I share my FTI on their Free Application for Federal Student Aid  (FAFSA
®) form.
2. Authorized persons at the U.S. Department of Education and its contractors (as defined in 26 U.S.C. § 6103(l)(13)(E)) may use my FTI for the purpose
of determining the eligibility for, and amount of, Federal student aid under a program authorized under subpart 1 of part A, part C, or part D of title IV
of the Higher Education Act of 1965,  as amended, for myself or a FAFSA applicant who has requested that I share my FTI on the FAFSA form.
3. The U.S. Department of Education may redisclose my FTI received from the IRS pursuant to 26 U.S.C. § 6103(l)(13)(D)(iii) to the following entities
solely for the use in the application, award, and administration of financial aid:
•
Institutions of higher 
education participating in the Federal student aid programs authorized under subpart 1 of part A, part C, or part D of title IV of
the Higher Education Act of 1965,  as amended;
• State higher education agencies;
• Scholarship organizations designated prior to December 19, 2019, by the Secretary of Education; and
• Contractors of institutions of higher education and State higher education agencies to administer aspects of the institution’s or State agency’s
activities for the application, award, and administration of such financial aid.
4. The U.S. Department of Education may redisclose my FTI to another FAFSA applicant’s FAFSA form(s) for which I elect to participate. By accepting an
invitation and affirmation to participate in another individual’s FAFSA form, my FTI will be redisclosed to the additional application. I understand that I
may decline an invitation to participate, which will prevent the transfer of my FTI to that F AFSA form.
By consenting and providing my affirmative approval, I further understand that: 
1.
My consent and 
affirmative approval are required, as a condition of my eligibility or the eligibility of a FAFSA applicant who has requested that I share
my FTI on their FAFSA form, for Federal student aid under a program authorized under subpart 1 of part A, part C, or part D of title IV of the Higher
Education Act of 1965,  as amended, even if I did not file a U.S. Federal tax return.
2. I am providing my written consent for the redisclosure of my FTI by the U.S. Department of Education to include, but not limited to, institutions of higher
education, State higher education agencies, designated scholarship organizations, their respective contractors and auditors, other family members
participating in the FAFSA form, Office of Inspector General, under 26 U.S.C. § 6103(l)(13)(D), and with my further express written consent obtained
by an institution of higher education, the redisclosure of FAFSA information pursuant to the terms and conditions of 20 U.S.C. § 1098h(c).
3. Any FTI received from the IRS at a later date shall supersede any manually entered financial or income information on the F AFSA form.
4. The U.S. Department of Education may request updated FTI from the IRS once my consent is provided. If FTI has changed (e.g., amended tax return
filed with revised information), then eligibility for, and amounts of, Federal, State, and institutional financial aid may change.
5. If I do not consent to the redisclosure of my FTI to institutions of higher education, State higher education agencies, designated scholarship
organizations, and their respective contractors, the U.S. Department of Education will be unable to calculate my eligibility for Federal student aid or
the eligibility of a FAFSA applicant who has requested that I share my FTI on their FAFSA form.
 Signatures
I consent and certify under penalty of perjury under the laws of the United States of America, that the information I provide on the FAFSA form is true and correct. 
I understand that any falsification of this statement is punishable under the provisions of 18 U.S.C. § 1001 by a fine, imprisonment of not more than five years, 
or both, and that the knowing and willful request for or acquisition of records pertaining to an individual under false pretenses is a criminal offense under the 
Privacy Act of 1974, subject to a fine of not more than $5,000 fine (5 U.S.C. § 552(a)(i)(3)). By accepting and submitting my part of the FAFSA, my execution 
date of consent and approval will be logged in the U.S. Department of Education’s Person Authentication Service (PAS) System of Record (18-11-12).
If you sign this application, you certify that you are the person identified. If you purposefully give false or misleading information, including applying as an 
independent student without meeting the unusual circumstances required to qualify for such a status, you may be subject to criminal penalties under 20 
U.S.C. 1097, which may include a fine up to $20,000, imprisonment, or both.
Student
By signing this application, YOU, THE STUDENT, certify that you:
•
will use federal 
and/or state student financial aid only to pay the cost of
attending an institution of higher education,
• are not in default on a federal student loan or have made satisfactory
arrangements to repay it,
• do not owe money back on a federal student grant or have made
satisfactory arrangements to repay it,
• will notify your school if you default on a federal student loan, and
• will not receive a Federal Pell Grant from more than one school for the
same period of time.
Student, Student Spouse, Parent, Parent Spouse or Partner, Preparer
By signing this application, you certify that all of the information you 
provided is true and complete to the best of your knowledge and you 
agree, if asked, to provide:
•
information that will verify the accuracy of your completed form, and
• U.S. or foreign income tax forms that you filed or are required to file.
You also 
certify that you understand that the Secretary of Education has 
the authority to verify information reported on your application with the 
Internal Revenue Service and other federal agencies.
Additionally, by signing this application, you authorize the Department to disclose all information you provided on this application, as required under Section 
483(a)(2)(D)(i) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 , as amended, to the institutions identified herein, state higher education agencies (in the student’s state 
of residence and the states in which the institutions identified herein are located), and designated scholarship organizations to assist with the application, 
award, and administration of aid from federal, state, or institutional financial aid programs and designated scholarship programs. Notwithstanding this 
authorization, the name of an institution the student selected to authorize such disclosure shall not be shared with any other institution. 
FAFSA
®  
Form
Free Application for Federal Student 
Aid
July 1, 2025 – June 30, 2026
FTI Consent and ApprovalSignatures
6

2025–26
FAFSA
®  
Form
 Free Application for Federal Student Aid
July 1, 2025 – June 30, 2026
OMB No. 1845-0001
For help in filling out the FAFSA form, go to StudentAid.gov/fafsahelp  or call 1-800-4-FED-AID (1-800-433-3243).
Student
 ►The student must complete this section.
Questions 1–24 apply to the student. Leave blank any questions that don’t apply to the student.
1 Student Identity Information [See Notes page 21.]
The student’s full legal name, for example, as it appears on their Social  Security card.
First name
Middle name
Last name
Suffix (e.g., Jr. or III) Date of birth
MM / DD / YYYY
/ /
Social Security number (SSN)
– –
Individual Taxpayer Identification Number (I TIN)
– –
If the student does not  have an ITIN, leave this field blank.
2 Student Contact Information [See Notes page 21.]
Mobile phone number
– –
Email address
Continue on 
next line.
Permanent mailing address
Include apt. number.
Continue on 
next line.
City State
ZIP code
–
Country
3 Student Current Marital Status [See Notes page 21.]
Single  
(never married)
Married  
(not separated)
Remarried Separated Divorced Widowed
Student
7
FTI Consent and ApprovalSignatures

4 Student College or Career Schoo l Plans
When the student begins the 2025–26 school year, what will their college grade level be?
First year undergraduate  
(freshman)
Second year undergraduate
(sophomore)
Other undergraduate
(junior year and beyond)
Master’s, doctorate, or graduate certificate 
program (MA, MBA, MD, JD, PhD, EdD, etc.)
When the student begins the 2025–26 school year, will they already have their first bachelor’s degree? Yes No
Will the student be pursuing an initial teaching certification at the elementary or secondary level? Yes No
5 Student Personal Circ umstances [See Notes page 21.]
Select all that apply.
The student is currently serving on active duty in the 
U.S. armed forces for purposes other than training.
The student is a veteran of the U.S. armed forces.
The student has children or other people (excluding 
their spouse) who live with the student and receive 
more than half of their support from the student now 
and between July 1, 2025, and June 30, 2026.
At any time since the student turned 13, they were 
an orphan (no living biological or adoptive parent).
At any time since the student turned 13, they were a ward of the court.
At any time since the student turned 13, they were in foster care.
The student is or was a legally emancipated minor, as determined 
by a court in their state of residence.
The student is or was in a legal guardianship with someone other  
than their parent or stepparent, as determined by a court in their  
state of residence.
None of these apply.
6 Student Homelessness [See Notes page 21.]
At any time on or
 after July 1, 2024, was the student unaccompanied and 
either (1) homeless or (2) self-supporting and at risk of being  homeless? Yes No
If the answer is “Yes,” did any of the following determine the student was homeless or at risk of becoming homeless?
Select all that apply.
Director or designee of an emergency 
or transitional shelter, street outreach 
program, homeless youth drop-in 
center, or other program serving 
those experiencing homelessness
The student’s high 
school or school 
district homeless 
liaison or designee
Director or designee of 
a project supported by 
a federal TRIO or GEAR 
UP program grant
Financial aid 
administrator 
(FAA)
None of 
these apply.
7 Student Unusual Circumstances
►See “Can I skip any questions? ”, on page 4.
Do unusual circumstances prevent the student from contacting their parents or would contacting 
their parents pose a risk to the student? This information will help us evaluate the student’s ability to pay for school.
Yes No
A student may be experiencing unusual circumstances if they:
• Left home due to an abusive or threatening environment;
• Are abandoned by or estranged from their parents;
• Have refugee or asylee status and are separated from their
parents, or their parents are displaced in a foreign country;
• Are a victim of human trafficking;
• Are incarcerated, or their parents are incarcerated, and
contact with the parents would pose a risk to the student; or
• Are otherwise unable to contact or locate their parents.
If the student does not have a safe,  stable place to live because of such circumstances, they may be  considered a homeless youth and should 
review the answer to question 6 about being unaccompanied and homeless.
8 Apply for a Direct Unsubsidized Loan Only
►See “Can I skip any questions? ”, on page 4.
Are the student’s parents refusing to provide their information on this FAFSA form? Yes No
This response must be “No” for the student to be eligible for a Federal Pell Grant and most other types of federal aid. 
If the answer is “Yes,” a financial aid administrator at the student’s school will determine their eligibility for a Direct 
Unsubsidized Loan only. If the student is approved for this option, they will not qualify to receive other types of federal 
student loans (including Direct Subsidized Loans), federal grants, or Federal Work-Study programs.
Student
2025–26
8

9 Family Size
►See “Can I skip any questions?”, on page 4.
How many people are in the student’s family?
Include the student (and spouse), the student’s dependent children (even if they live apart due to college enrollment), and other people living with the student now. 
Include these dependent children and other people only if the student will provide more than half of their support between July 1, 2025, and June 30, 2026.
10 Number in College
►See “Can I skip any questions? ”, on page 4.
How many people in the student’s family, including the student, will be in college between July 1, 2025, and June 30, 2026?
11 Student Demographic Information
The answers will not affect the student’ s eligibility for federal student aid, be used in any calculations,  or be shared with the schools to which the student applies. 
They will be used for r esearch purposes only.
What is the student’s gender?
“Nonbinary” refers to a student who does not identify exclusively as male or female. “Nonbinary” does not refer to a transgender student who identifies 
exclusively as either male or female. Transgender students should select the gender with which they identify at the time this form is completed.
Male Female Nonbinary Prefer not to answer
12 Student Race and Ethnicity
The answers will not affect the student’s eligibility for federal student aid, be use
d in any calculations, or be shared with the schools to which the student applies. 
They will be used for research purposes only.
Is the student of Hispanic, Latino, or Spanish origin? Select all that apply.
No, not of Hispanic, 
Latino, or Spanish 
origin
Yes, Mexican, 
Mexican American, 
or Chicano
Yes, Puerto Rican Yes, Cuban Yes, another 
Hispanic, Latino, 
or Spanish origin
Prefer not to 
answer
What is the student’s race? Select all that apply. If you select “Other” and enter more than one category in the entry boxes, skip a box between each one.
White
German Irish English Italian Polish French
Other:
Enter Lebanese, Egyptian, Iranian, etc.
Black or African American
African American Jamaican Haitian Nigerian Ethiopian Somali
Other:
Enter Ghanaian, South African, Barbadian, etc.
Asian
Chinese Filipino Asian Indian Vietnamese Korean Japanese
Other:
Enter Pakistani, Cambodian, Hmong, etc.
American Indian or Alaska Native
Other:
Enter name of enrolled or principal tribe(s) (Navajo, Blackfeet, Mayan, Nome Eskimo Community , etc.)
Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander
Native Hawaiian Samoan Chamorro Tongan Fijian Marshallese
Other:
Enter Palauan, T ahitian, Chuukese, etc.
Prefer not to answer
13 Student Citizenship [See Notes page 22.]
Citizenship status
U.S. citizen 
or national
Eligible 
noncitizen
Neither U.S. citizen nor 
eligible noncitizen
A–Number
If the student is an eligible noncitizen, provide their A-Number.
A
Student
Student
2025–26
9

14 Student State of Legal Residence
State Date the student became a legal resident
MM / YYYY
/
15 Parent Education Statu s    
Did either of the student’s parents attend or complete college?
Neither parent 
attended college
One or both parents attended college, 
but neither parent completed college
One or both parents 
completed college
Don’t know
16 Parent Killed in Line of Duty [See Notes page 22.]
Was the student’s parent or guardian killed in the line of duty while (1) serving on active duty as a member 
of the U.S. armed forces on or after September 11, 2001, or (2) performing official duties as a public safety 
officer?
The student may be eligible for additional Federal Pell Grant funds once their eligibility is confirmed by their college or career school.
Yes No
17 Student High School Information [See Notes page 22.]
High school completion status when the student begins the 2025–26 school year
High school diploma State-recognized high school 
equivalent (e.g., GED certificate)
Homeschooled None of the previous
If the answer is “High school diploma,” provide the name, city, and state of the high school.
High school name
Continue on 
next line.
City State
If the answer is “State-recognized high school equivalent,” 
which of the following did or will the student receive?
GED
HiSET
TASC
Other
Issuing state
18 Federal Benefits Received [See Notes page 22.]
►See “Can I skip any questions?”, on page 4.
At any time during 2023 or 2024, did the student or anyone in their family receive benefits from any of 
the following federal programs? Select all that apply.
Earned income credit (EIC)
Federal housing assistance
Free or reduced-price school lunch
Medicaid
Refundable credit for coverage under 
a qualified health plan (QHP)
Supplemental Nutrition  
Assistance Program (SNAP)
Supplemental Security Income (SSI)
Temporary Assistance for Needy 
Families (TANF)
Special Supplemental Nutrition Program 
for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC)
None of these apply.
19 Student Tax Filing Status [See Notes page 22.]
Did or will the student file a 2023 IRS Form 1040 or 1040-NR? Yes No
Did the student either (1) earn income in a foreign country in 2023, (2) work for an international 
organization in 2023 without being required to report income on any tax return, or (3) file a 2023 
tax return with Puerto Rico or another U.S. territory?
Yes No
International organizations include, for example, the United Nations, W orld Bank, and International Monetary Fund.
►If the answer is “No” to both of the questions above, and the student is not married, questions 20–22 can be skipped;
however, if the student is also required to provide parent information on the form, question 22 must be answered.
YesDid or will the student file a 2023 joint tax return with their current spouse? No
20 Student 2023 Tax Return Information [If the student had a spouse at any time 
in 2023 or later, see Notes page 22 .]Filing status
Single Head of household Married filing jointly Married filing separately Qualifying surviving spouse
[Question 20 continues on next page.]
Student
2025–26 10

20 Student 2023 Tax Return Information [continued]
►Convert all currency to U.S. dollars. If the answer is zero or the question does not apply , enter 0.
If the answer is negative, completely fill the circle (    ) before the answer box.– 
Income earned from work
IRS Form 1040  (or 1040-NR) : line 1z + Schedule 1: lines 3 + 6. 
If a tax form line’s value is negative, treat it as zero in your calculation.
$ , , , 
Tax exempt interest income
IRS Form 1040: line 2a
$ , , , 
Untaxed portions of IRA distributions 
IRS Form 1040: line 4a minus 4b
$ , , , 
IRA rollover into another IRA or qualified plan 
$ , , , 
Untaxed portions of pensions 
IRS Form 1040: line 5a minus 5b
$ , , , 
Pension rollover into an IRA or other qualified plan 
$ , , , 
Adjusted gross income
IRS Form 1040 (or 1040-NR): line 11
– $ , , 
Income tax paid
IRS Form 1040: line 24. If negative, enter a zero.
$ , , 
Did the student receive the earned income credit (EIC)?
IRS Form 1040: line 27
Yes No Don’t know
IRA deductions and payments to self-employed 
SEP, SIMPLE, and qualified plans
IRS Form 1040 Schedule 1: total of lines 16 + 20
$ , , , 
Education credits  
(American Opportunity and Lifetime Learning credits)
IRS Form 1040 Schedule 3: line 3 + IRS Form 1040: line 29
$ , , 
Did the student file a Schedule A, B, D, E, F, or H 
with their 2023 IRS Form 1040?
Yes No Don’t know
Net profit or loss from IRS Form 1040 
Schedule C
IRS Form 1040 Schedule C: line 31
– $ , , , 
Amount of college grants, scholarships, or AmeriCorps 
benefits reported as income to the IRS
The student paid taxes on these grants, scholarships, or benefits. These 
usually apply to those renewing their FAFSA form, not to first-time applicants. 
If the student is married, include the amount their spouse reported.
[See Notes page 22.]
$ , , 
Foreign earned income exclusion
IRS Form 1040 Schedule 1: line 8d
– $ , , 
21 Annual Child Support Received
►See “Can I skip any questions?”, on page 4.
Enter total amount the student received in child support for the last complete calendar year. If the answer to question 3 was “Married” or 
“Remarried,” enter the combined amount the student and their spouse received. If the answer is zero or the question does not apply, enter 0.
$
, , 
22 Student Assets [See Notes page 22.]
If the answer to question 3 was “Married” or “Remarried,” enter the combined amounts held by the student and their spouse. If the answer is 
zero or the question does not apply, enter 0.
Current total of cash, savings, 
and checking accounts
Don’t include student financial aid.
$ , , 
Current net worth of investments, 
including real estate
Don’t include the home the student lives in. 
Net worth is the value of the investments 
minus any debts owed against them.
$ , , 
Current net worth of businesses 
and investment farms
Enter the net worth of the student’s businesses and for-
profit agricultural operations. Net worth is the value of the 
businesses and farms minus any debts owed against them.
$ , , 
Student
Student
2025–26
11

23 Colleges [See Notes page 22.]
Enter the schools that should receive the student’s FAFSA information.
College 1
Federal School Code OR
College 1 
name
Address 
and city
1
State
College 2
Federal School Code OR
College 2 
name
Address 
and city
2
State
College 3
Federal School Code OR
College 3 
name
Address 
and city
3
State
College 4
Federal School Code OR
College 4 
name
Address 
and city
4
State
College 5
Federal School Code OR
College 5 
name
Address 
and city
5
State
College 6
Federal School Code OR
College 6 
name
Address 
and city
6
State
College 7
Federal School Code OR
College 7 
name
Address 
and city
7
State
College 8
Federal School Code OR
College 8 
name
Address 
and city
8
State
College 9
Federal School Code OR
College 9 
name
Address 
and city
9
State
College 10
Federal School Code OR
College 10
name
 
Address 
and city
10
State
24 Student Consent, Approval, and S
ignature [See page 6.]
Refer to the terms on page 6. By filling in the answer circle below and signing this form, you (the student) agree to the terms set forth on page 6. If you 
do not provide consent and approval by filling in the circle below and providing your signature, you will not be eligible for federal student aid.
Consent and approval to transfer federal tax information from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS)
Student signature Date signed
MM / DD / YYYY
/ /
Student
2025–26
12

2025–26
Student  Spouse
 ►See “Who must provide information on the FAFSA form? ”, on page 3, to determine if a spouse must complete this section.
Questions 25–29 apply to the
 student’s spouse. Leave blank any questions that don’t apply to the student’s spouse.
25 Student Spouse Identity Information
The student spouse’s full legal name, for examp
le, as it appears on their Social Security card.
First name
Middle name
Last name
Suffix (e.g., Jr. or III)  Date of birth
MM / DD / YYYY
/ /
Social Security number (SSN)
If the student spouse does not have an SSN, 
enter all zeros.
– –
Individual Taxpayer Identification Number (ITIN)
– –
If the student spouse does not have an ITIN, leave this field blank.
26 Student Spouse Contact Information [See Notes page 21.]
Mobile phone number
– –
Email address
Continue on 
next line.
Permanent mailing address
Include apt. number.
Continue on 
next line.
City State
ZIP code
–
Country
27 Student Spouse Tax Filing Status [See Notes page 22.]
►See “Can I skip any questions?”, on page 4.
Did or will the student spouse file a 2023 IRS Form 1040 or 1040-NR? Yes No
Did the student spouse either (1) earn income in a foreign country in 2023, (2) work for an 
international organization in 2023 without being required to report income on any tax return, or 
(3) file a 2023 tax return with Puerto Rico or another U.S. territory?
Yes No
International organizations include, for example, the United Nations, W orld Bank, and International Monetary Fund.
►If the answer is “No” to both of the questions above, question 28 can be skipped.
Student Spouse
13
Student

2025–26
28 Student Spouse 2023 Tax Return Information [See Notes page 22.]
►See “Can I skip any questions?”, on page 4.
Filing status
Single Head of household Married filing jointly Married filing separately Qualifying surviving spouse
►Convert all currency to U.S. dollars. If the answer is zero or the question does not apply , enter 0.
If the answer is negative, completely fill the circle (    ) before the answer box.– 
Income earned from work
IRS Form 1040  (or 1040-NR) : line 1z + Schedule 1: lines 3 + 6. 
If a tax form line’s value is negative, treat it as zero in your calculation.
$ , , , 
Tax exempt interest income
IRS Form 1040: line 2a
$ , , , 
Untaxed portions of IRA distributions 
IRS Form 1040: line 4a minus 4b
$ , , , 
IRA rollover into another IRA or qualified plan 
$ , , , 
Untaxed portions of pensions 
IRS Form 1040: line 5a minus 5b
$ , , , 
Pension rollover into an IRA or other qualified plan 
$ , , , 
Adjusted gross income
IRS Form 1040 (or 1040-NR): line 11
– $ , , 
Income tax paid
IRS Form 1040: line 24. If negative, enter a zero.
$ , , 
IRA deductions and payments to self-employed 
SEP, SIMPLE, and qualified plans
IRS Form 1040 Schedule 1: total of lines 16 + 20
$ , , , 
Education credits  
(American Opportunity and Lifetime Learning credits)
IRS Form 1040 Schedule 3: line 3 + IRS Form 1040: line 29
$ , , 
Did the student spouse file a Schedule A, B, D, E, F, or H 
with their 2023 IRS Form 1040?
Yes No Don’t know
Net profit or loss from IRS Form 1040 Schedule C
IRS Form 1040 Schedule C: line 31
– $ , , , 
Foreign earned income exclusion
IRS Form 1040 Schedule 1: line 8d
– $ , , 
29 Student Spouse Consent, Approval, and Signature [See page 6.]
►See “Can I skip any questions?”, on page 4.
Refer to the terms on page 6. By filling in the answer circle below and signing this form, you (the student spouse) agree to the terms set forth on page 6. 
If you do not provide consent and approval by filling in the cir cle below and providing your signature, the student will not be eligible for federal student aid.
Consent and approval to transfer federal tax information from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS)
Student spouse signature Date signed
MM / DD / YYYY
/ /
Student Spouse
14

2025–26
Parent
►See “Who must provide information on the FAFSA form? ”, on page 3, to determine if a parent must complete this section.
Questions 30–41 apply to the student’s parent. Leave blank any questions that don’t apply to the parent.
30 Parent Identity Information
The parent’s full legal name, for example, as it appears on their Social Security card.
First name
Middle name
Last name
Suffix (e.g., Jr. or III) Date of birth
MM / DD / YYYY
/ /
Social Security number (SSN)
If the parent does not have an SSN, enter all zeros.
– –
Individual Taxpayer Identification Number (ITIN)
– –
If the parent does not have an ITIN, leave this field blank.
31 Parent Contact Information [See Notes page 21.]
Mobile phone number
– –
Email address
Continue on 
next line.
Permanent mailing address
Include apt. number.
Continue on 
next line.
City State
ZIP code
–
Country
32 Parent Current Marital Status [See Notes page 21.]
Single 
(never married)
Unmarried and both legal 
parents living together
Married  
(not separated)
Remarried Separated Divorced Widowed
33 Parent State of Legal Residence
State Date the parent became a legal resident
MM / YYYY
/
Parent
15
Student Spouse

2025–26
34 Family Size
How many people are in the parent’s family?
Include the parent (and spouse or partner), the student, the parent’s dependent children (even if they live apart because of college enrollment), 
and other people living with the parent now. Include these dependent children and other people only if the parent will provide more than half of 
their support between July 1, 2025, and June 30, 2026.
35 Number in College
How many people in the parent’s family will be in college between July 1, 2025, and June 30, 2026?
Do not include parent(s).
36 Federal Benefits Received [See Notes page 22.]
At any time during 2023 or 2024, did the parent or anyone in their family receive benefits from any of the following 
federal programs?
Select all that apply.
Earned income credit (EIC)
Federal housing assistance
Free or reduced-price school lunch
Medicaid
Refundable credit for coverage under 
a qualified health plan (QHP)
Supplemental Nutrition  
Assistance Program (SNAP)
Supplemental Security Income (SSI)
Temporary Assistance for Needy 
Families (TANF)
Special Supplemental Nutrition Program 
for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC)
None of these apply.
37 Parent Tax Filing Status [See Notes page 22.]
Did or will the parent file a 2023 IRS Form 1040 or 1040-NR? Yes No
If the answer is “No,” indicate which one of the following situations applies to the parent for 2023:
►If one of the options in the second column below is selected and the parent is unmarried, questions 38–40 can be skipped.
The parent filed or will file a tax return with Puerto Rico or another 
U.S. territory.
The parent filed or will file a foreign tax return.
The parent either earned income in a foreign country but did not 
and will not file a foreign tax return, or worked for an international 
organization and was not required to report income on any tax return.
International organizations include, for example, the United Nations, World 
Bank, and International Monetary Fund.
The parent, even though they earned income in the U.S., 
did not and will not file a U.S. tax return because their 
income was below the tax filing threshold.
The parent did not and will not file a U.S. tax return for 
reasons other than low income.
The parent did not and will not file any tax return because 
they did not earn any income or they were not required 
to file under the Internal Revenue Code.
Did or will the parent file a 2023 joint tax return with their current spouse? Yes No
38 Parent 2023 Tax Return Information [If the parent had a spouse at any time 
in 2023 or later, see Notes page 22.]Filing status
Single Head of household Married filing jointly Married filing separately Qualifying surviving spouse
►Convert all currency to U.S. dollars. If the answer is zero or the question does not apply , enter 0.
If the answer is negative, completely fill the circle (    ) before the answer box.– 
Income earned from work
IRS Form 1040  (or 1040-NR) : line 1z + Schedule 1: lines 3 + 6. 
If a tax form line’s value is negative, treat it as zero in your calculation.
$ , , , 
Tax exempt interest income
IRS Form 1040: line 2a
$ , , , 
Untaxed portions of IRA distributions 
IRS Form 1040: line 4a minus 4b
$ , , , 
IRA rollover into another IRA or qualified plan 
$ , , , 
Untaxed portions of pensions 
IRS Form 1040: line 5a minus 5b
$ , , , 
Pension rollover into an IRA or other qualified plan 
$ , , , 
[Question 38 continues on next page.]
Parent 16

2025–26
38 Parent 2023 Tax Return Information [continued]
Adjusted gross income
IRS Form 1040 (or 1040-NR): line 11
– $ , , 
Income tax paid
IRS Form 1040: line 24. If negative, enter a zero.
$ , , 
Did the parent receive the earned income credit (EIC)?
IRS Form 1040: line 27 Yes No Don’t know
IRA deductions and payments to self-employed 
SEP, SIMPLE, and qualified plans
IRS Form 1040 Schedule 1: total of lines 16 + 20
$ , , , 
Education credits  
(American Opportunity and Lifetime Learning credits)
IRS Form 1040 Schedule 3: line 3 + IRS Form 1040: line 29
$ , , 
Did the parent file a Schedule A, B, D, E, F, or H 
with their 2023 IRS Form 1040?
Yes No Don’t know
Net profit or loss from IRS Form 1040 
Schedule C
IRS Form 1040 Schedule C: line 31
– $ , , , 
Amount of college grants, scholarships, or AmeriCorps 
benefits reported as income to the IRS
The parent paid taxes on these grants, scholarships, or benefits. These 
usually apply to those renewing their FAFSA form, not to first-time applicants. 
If the parent is married, include the amount their spouse reported.
[See Notes page 22 .]
$ , , 
Foreign earned income exclusion
IRS Form 1040 Schedule 1: line 8d
– $ , , 
39 Annual Child Support Received
Enter total amount the parent received in child support for the last complete calendar year. If the answer to question 32 was “Married,” 
“Remarried,” or “Unmarried and both legal parents living together,” enter the combined amount the parent and their spouse received. 
If the answer is zero or the question does not apply, enter 0.
$
, , 
40 Parent Assets [See Notes page 22.]
If the answer to question 32 was “Married,” “Remarried,” or “Unmarried and both legal parents living together,” enter the combined 
amounts held by the parent and their spouse. If the answer is zero or the question does not apply , enter 0.
Current total of cash, savings, 
and checking accounts
Don’t include student financial aid.
$ , , 
Current net worth of investments, 
including real estate
Don’t include the home the parent lives in. 
Net worth is the value of the investments 
minus any debts owed against them.
$ , , 
Current net worth of businesses 
and investment farms
Enter the net worth of the parent’s businesses and for-
profit agricultural operations. Net worth is the value of the 
businesses and farms minus any debts owed against them.
$ , , 
41 Parent Consent, Approval, and Signature [See page 6.]
Refer to the terms on page 6. By filling in the answer circle below and signing this form, you (the parent) agree to the terms set forth on page 6. If you do 
not provide consent and approval by filling in the circle below and providing your signature, the student will not be eligible for federal student aid.
Consent and approval to transfer federal tax information from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS)
Parent signature Date signed
MM / DD / YYYY
/ /
Parent
Parent
17

2025–26
Parent  Spouse or Partner
►Do not complete this section if you are not the student’s legal parent or stepparent. See “Who must provide information on the
FAFSA form? ”, on page 3, to determine if the parent spouse or partner must complete this section.
Questions 42–46 apply to the parent spouse or partner. Leave blank any questions that don’t apply to the parent spouse or partner.
42 Parent Spouse or Partner Identity Information
The parent spouse or partner’s full legal name, for example, as it appears on their Social Security card.
First name
Middle name
Last name
Suffix (e.g., Jr. or III) Date of birth
MM / DD / YYYY
/ /
Social Security number (SSN)
If the parent spouse or partner does not have 
an SSN, enter all zeros.
– –
Individual Taxpayer Identification Number (ITIN)
If the parent spouse or partner does not have an ITIN, leave this field blank.
– –
43 Parent Spouse or Partner Contact Information [See Notes page 21.]
Mobile phone number
– –
Email address
Continue on 
next line.
Permanent mailing address
Include apt. number.
Continue on 
next line.
City State
ZIP code
–
Country
44 Parent Spouse or Partner Tax Filing Status [See Notes page 22.]
►See “Can I skip any questions?”, on page 4.
Did or will the parent spouse or partner file a 2023 IRS Form 1040 or 1040-NR? Yes No
If the answer is “No,” indicate which one of the following situations applies to the parent spouse or partner for 2023:
►If one of the options in the second column below is selected, question 45 can be skipped.
The parent spouse or partner filed or will file a tax return with Puerto
Rico or another U.S. territory.
The parent spouse or partner filed or will file a foreign tax return.
The parent spouse or partner either earned income in a foreign country but
did not and will not file a foreign tax return, or worked for an international
organization and was not required to report income on any tax return.
International organizations include, for example, the United Nations, World Bank,
and International Monetary Fund.
The parent spouse or partner, even though they earned 
income in the U.S., did not and will not file a U.S. tax return 
because their income was below the tax filing threshold.
The parent spouse or partner did not and will not file a 
U.S. tax return for reasons other than low income.
The parent spouse or partner did not and will not file any 
tax return because they did not earn any income or they 
were not required to file under the Internal Revenue Code.
ParentSpouse or Partner
18

2025–26
45 Parent Spouse or Partner 2023 Tax Return Information [See Notes page 22.]
►See “Can I skip any questions?”, on page 4.
Filing status
Single Head of household Married filing jointly Married filing separately Qualifying surviving spouse
►Convert all currency to U.S. dollars. If the answer is zero or the question does not apply , enter 0.
If the answer is negative, completely fill the circle (    ) before the answer box.– 
Income earned from work
IRS Form 1040  (or 1040-NR) : line 1z + Schedule 1: lines 3 + 6. 
If a tax form line’s value is negative, treat it as zero in your calculation.
$ , , , 
Tax exempt interest income
IRS Form 1040: line 2a
$ , , , 
Untaxed portions of IRA distributions 
IRS Form 1040: line 4a minus 4b
$ , , , 
IRA rollover into another IRA or qualified plan 
$ , , , 
Untaxed portions of pensions 
IRS Form 1040: line 5a minus 5b
$ , , , 
Pension rollover into an IRA or other qualified plan 
$ , , , 
Adjusted gross income
IRS Form 1040 (or 1040-NR): line 11
– $ , , 
Income tax paid
IRS Form 1040: line 24. If negative, enter a zero.
$ , , 
IRA deductions and payments to self-employed 
SEP, SIMPLE, and qualified plans
IRS Form 1040 Schedule 1: total of lines 16 + 20
$ , , , 
Education credits  
(American Opportunity and Lifetime Learning credits)
IRS Form 1040 Schedule 3: line 3 + IRS Form 1040: line 29
$ , , 
Did the parent spouse or partner file a Schedule A, B, 
D, E, F, or H with their 2023 IRS Form 1040?
Yes No Don’t know
Net profit or loss from IRS Form 1040 Schedule C
IRS Form 1040 Schedule C: line 31
– $ , , , 
Foreign earned income exclusion
IRS Form 1040 Schedule 1: line 8d
– $ , , 
46 Parent Spouse or Partner Consent, Approval, and Signatur
e [See page 6.]
►See “Can I skip any questions?”, on page 4.
Refer to the terms on page 6. By filling in the answer circle be low and signing this form, you (the parent spouse or partner) agree to the terms set forth on page 6. 
If you do not provide consent and approval by filling in the cir cle below and providing your signature, the student will not be eligible for federal student aid.
Consent and approval to transfer federal tax information from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS)
Parent spouse or partner signature Date signed
MM / DD / YYYY
/ /
ParentSpouse or Partner
19
Parent Spouse or Partner

2025–26
Preparer
 ►See “Who must provide information on the FAFSA form? ”, on page 3, to determine if a preparer must complete this section. 
Paid preparers are prohibited.
Questions 47–49 apply to the preparer. Leave blank any questions that don’t apply to the preparer.
47 Preparer Identity Information
First name
Last name
Social Security number (SSN)
– –
Employer Identification Number (EIN)
–
48 Preparer Contact Information
Affiliation / Organization
Permanent mailing address
Include apt. number.
Continue on 
next line.
City State
ZIP code
–
49 Preparer Signature [See page 6.]
Refer to the terms on page 6. By signing this form, you (the preparer) agree to the terms set forth on page 6.
Preparer signature Date signed
MM / DD / YYYY
/ /
Mail Your FAFSA ® Form
College Use Only
D/O Federal school code FAA signature
Data Entry Use Only
* @ D C
 Notes
Make a copy of pages 7 through 20 for your records. Then mail the original of pages 7 through 20 to:
Federal Student Aid Programs, P.O. Box 70208, London, KY 40742-0208
Extra postage will be required. When mailing, include pages 7 through 20, even if some are blank.
Preparer
20

2025–26
 Notes
Identity Information – Question 1
Enter your Social Security number (SSN) as it appears on your Social Security 
card. Attention student residents of Freely Associated States (Republic of 
Palau, Republic of the Marshall Islands, or Federated States of Micronesia): 
If the student is a first-time applicant, enter “000” in the first three boxes of the 
field and leave the remaining six positions blank; we will create an identification 
number to be used for federal student aid purposes. If the student was issued 
an identification number beginning with “666” when previously submitting a 
FAFSA form, enter that number in the Social Security number field.
Contact Information – Questions 2 , 26, 31, and 43
We will use your email address to communicate with you electronically. For example, 
when this FAFSA form has been processed, the student and parent will be notified 
by email. Your email address will also be shared with your state and the colleges 
listed on your FAFSA form to allow them to communicate with you. We suggest 
using an email address you’ll continue to have access to after you leave school.
If you are homeless or have no stable address, you can provide an address where 
you can reliably receive mail. If you secure a permanent address during the school 
year, we recommend that you update your address in your FAFSA form.
Common country codes: US (United States), CA (Canada), and MX (Mexico). 
For U.S. territories, use their state code as their country code (for example, PR 
for Puerto Rico).
Current Marital Status – Questions 3  and 32
Report your marital status as of the date you sign your FAFSA form.  If your 
marital status changes after you sign your FAFSA form, check with the financial 
aid office at the college.
For parents: Do not include any person who is not married to the student’s 
parent and who is not a legal parent. Contact 1-800-433-3243 for help. 
If the student’s legal parents are:
•
married, select “Married” or “Remarried.”
• not married to each other and live together, select “Unmarried and both legal
parents living together.”
• divorced but 
living together, select “Unmarried and both legal parents living
together.”
• separated but living together, select “Married,” not “Divorced” or “Separated.”
Personal Circumstances – Question 5
Active Duty: Select this box if you are currently serving in the U.S. armed 
forces or are a National Guard or Reserves enlistee who is on active duty for 
other than state or training purposes. Do not check the box if you are a National 
Guard or Reserves enlistee who is on active duty for state or training purposes.
Veteran: Select this box if you (1) have engaged in active duty (including basic 
training) in the U.S. armed forces, or are a National Guard or Reserves enlistee 
who was called to active duty for other than state or training purposes, or were 
a cadet or midshipman at one of the service academies, and (2) were released 
under a condition other than dishonorable. Also select the box if you are not a 
veteran now but will be one by June 30, 2026. 
Do not select the box if you (1) are currently serving in the U.S. armed forces 
and will continue to serve through June 30, 2026, (2) have never engaged in 
active duty (including basic training) in the U.S. armed forces, (3) are currently a 
ROTC student or a cadet or midshipman at a service academy, (4) are a National 
Guard or Reserves enlistee activated only for state or training purposes, or 
(5) were engaged in active duty in the U.S. armed forces but released under
dishonorable conditions.
under chapter 103 of title 10 for a period of not less than four weeks and which 
must be completed by the member before the member is commissioned; and (E) 
authorized travel to or from such duty. The term does not include duty performed 
as a temporary member of the Coast Guard Reserve.
The term “active duty for training” means: (A) full-time duty in the armed forces
performed by Reserves for training purposes; (B) full-time duty for training purposes
performed as a commissioned officer of the Reserve Corps of the Public Health
Service (i) on or after July 29, 1945, or (ii) before that date under circumstances
affording entitlement to “full military benefits”, or (iii) at any time, for the purposes
of chapter 13 of this title; (C) in the case of members of the Army National Guard
or Air National Guard of any State, full-time duty under section 316 (duty as
instructors at rifle ranges for the training of civilians in the use of military arms),
502 (Required drills and field exercises), 503 (Participation in field exercises), 504
(National Guard schools and small arms competitions), or 505 (Army and Air Force
schools and field exercises) of title 32, or the prior corresponding provisions of
law; (D) duty performed by a member of a Senior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps
program when ordered to such duty for the purpose of training or a practice cruise
The term “inactive duty training” means: (A) duty (other than full-time duty) 
prescribed for Reserves (including commissioned officers of the Reserve Corps 
of the Public Health Service) by the Secretary concerned under section 206 of 
title 37 or any other provision of law; (B) special additional duties authorized 
for Reserves (including commissioned officers of the Reserve Corps of the 
Public Health Service) by an authority designated by the Secretary concerned 
and performed by them on a voluntary basis in connection with the prescribed 
training or maintenance activities of the units to which they are assigned; and 
(C) training (other than active duty for training) by a member of, or applicant
for membership (as defined in section 8140[g] of title 5) in, the Senior Reserve
Officers’ Training Corps prescribed under chapter 103 of title 10.
Orphan: Select this box if at any time since you turned 13, you had no living
parent, even if you are now adopted.
Ward of the Court:  Select this box if at any time since you turned 13, you
were a dependent or ward of the court, even if you are no longer a dependent
or ward of the court today. For federal student aid purposes, someone who is
incarcerated is not considered a ward of the court.
Foster Care:  Select this box if at any time since you turned 13, you were in
foster care, even if you are no longer in foster care today. If you are not sure if
you were in foster care, check with your state child welfare agency. You can find
that agency’s contact information at childwelfare.gov/nfcad .
Emancipation: Select this box if you can provide a copy of a court’s decision 
that, as of today, you are an emancipated minor. Also select the box if you 
can provide a copy of a court’s decision that you were an emancipated minor 
immediately before you reached the age of being an adult in your state. The 
court must be located in your state of legal residence at the time the court’s 
decision was issued. Do not select the box if you are still a minor and the court
decision is no longer in effect or the court decision was not in effect at the time
you became an adult.
Legal Guardianship: The definition of legal guardianship does not include your
parents, even if they were appointed by a court to be your guardians. You are
also not considered a legal guardian of yourself.
Select this box if you can provide a copy of a court’s decision that, as of today,
you are in legal guardianship. Also select the box if you can provide a copy of
a court’s decision that you were in legal guardianship immediately before you
reached the age of being an adult in your state. The court must be located in
your state of legal residence at the time the court’s decision was issued. Do
not select the box if you are still a minor and the court decision is no longer in
effect or the court decision was not in effect at the time you became an adult.
Also leave the box blank and contact your school if custody was awarded by the
courts and the court papers say “custody” (not “guardianship”).
If you meet any of these conditions, the financial aid administrator at your school
may require you to provide proof that you were in foster care, a dependent or
ward of the court, an emancipated minor, or in legal guardianship.
Homelessness – Question 6
“Homeless” means lacking fixed, regular, and adequate housing. You may 
be homeless if you are living in shelters, parks, motels, hotels, public spaces, 
camping grounds, cars, abandoned buildings, or temporarily living with other 
people because you have nowhere else to go. Also, if you are living in any 
of these situations and fleeing an abusive parent, you may be considered 
homeless even if your parent would otherwise provide a place to live. 
“Unaccompanied” means you are not living in the physical custody of your 
parent or guardian. 
If you selected “Yes” to being unaccompanied and homeless (or unaccompanied, 
self-supporting, and at risk of being homeless) at any time on or after July 1, 
2024, select the appropriate box if you received a determination to that effect. 
(The financial aid administrator at your college may ask you for a copy of the 
determination.) If you answered “Yes” but did not receive a determination from 
the persons listed, select “None of these apply” and contact the financial aid 
administrator at your college. This person can determine if you are “homeless” 
and, therefore, not required to provide parent information. 
[Notes continue on next page.]
Notes 21
Preparer

2025–26
Citizenship – Question 13
If you are an eligible noncitizen, write in your eight- or nine-digit A-Number. 
Generally, you are an eligible noncitizen if you are (1) a permanent U.S. resident 
with a Permanent Resident Card (I-551); (2) a conditional permanent resident 
with a Conditional Green Card (I-551C); (3) the holder of an Arrival-Departure 
Record (I-94) from the Department of Homeland Security showing any one of 
the following designations: “Refugee,” “Asylum Granted,” “Parolee” (I-94 confirms 
that you were paroled for a minimum of one year and status has not expired), 
T-Visa holder (T-1, T-2, T-3, etc.) or “Cuban-Haitian Entrant;” or (4) the holder of
a valid certification or eligibility letter from the Department of Health and Human
Services showing a designation of “Victim of human trafficking.”
If you are in the U.S. and have been granted Deferred Action for Childhood
Arrivals (DACA), an F1 or F2 student visa, a J1 or J2 exchange visitor visa, or a 
G series visa (pertaining to international organizations), select “Neither citizen
nor eligible noncitizen.” You will not be eligible for federal student aid. If you
have a Social Security number but are not a citizen or an eligible noncitizen,
including if you have been granted DACA, you should still complete the FAFSA 
form because you may be eligible for state or college aid.
Parent Killed in Line of Duty – Question 16
A public safety officer generally includes the following:
• Law enforcement officer, firefighter, or chaplain
• Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) employee
• Emergency management or civil defense agency employee
• Member of a rescue squad or ambulance crew
• Others defined in the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 .
High School Information – Question 17
State-recognized high school equivalents:
• GED®: General Educational Development Test
• HiSET®: High School Equivalency Test
• TASCTM: Test  Assessing Secondary Completion
Federal Benefits Received – Questions 18 and 36
Answer this question about you, your spouse, or anyone in your family. 
Answering these questions will NOT reduce eligibility for student aid or these 
programs. TANF has different names in many states. Call 1-800-433-3243 to 
find out the name of your state’s program.
Tax Filing Status – Questions 19, 27, 37, and 44
U.S. territories include Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the U.S. Virgin 
Islands, and the Northern Mariana Islands.
For more information about IRS tax filing thresholds, see IRS Publication 17.
If you filed or will file a foreign tax return or IRS 1040-NR, or a tax return with 
Puerto Rico, another U.S. territory, or one of the Freely Associated States, use the 
information from that return to fill out this form. If you filed a non-U.S. tax return 
or earned income in a foreign country, visit StudentAid.gov/2425/help/non-us-
tax-information  for guidance on how to answer questions about tax return items.
2023 Tax Return Information – Questions 20, 28, 38, and 45
Questions 20 (Student) and 28 (Student Spouse): If the student filed 
jointly with a spouse in 2023 and is currently married to that person, the joint 
information of both should be entered in question 20, and the spouse should 
not complete question 28.
 
If the student filed jointly with a spouse in 2023 but is no longer married to that 
person, only the student’s information should be entered in question 20, and no 
information from the former spouse should be entered in questions 20 or 28.
If the student did not file jointly with a spouse in 2023 and is currently married, 
only the student’s information should be entered in question 20, and the spouse 
should complete question 28 with their own information.
Questions 38 (Parent) and 45 (Parent Spouse or Partner):  If the parent filed 
jointly with a spouse or partner in 2023 and is currently married to or living 
together with that person, the joint information of both should be entered in 
question 38, and the spouse or partner should not complete question 45.
If the parent filed jointly with a spouse or partner in 2023 but is no longer 
married to or living with that person, only the parent’s information should be 
entered in question 38, and no information from the former spouse or partner 
should be entered in questions 38 or 45.
be entered in question 38, and the spouse or partner should complete question 
45 with their own information. 
If the parent did not file jointly with a spouse or partner in 2023 and is currently 
married or living together with a partner, only the parent’s information should 
See also “Who must provide information on the FAFSA form? ,” on page 3.
College Grants, Scholarships, or AmeriCorps Benefits Reported to the IRS:  
Taxable college grant and scholarship aid reported to the IRS as income. Includes 
AmeriCorps benefits (awards, living allowances, and interest accrual payments), 
as well as grant and scholarship portions of fellowships and assistantships. Most 
students leave this question blank because most scholarships and grants are 
not taxable.
Assets – Questions 22 and 40
Net worth means the current value, as of today, of investments, businesses, 
and/or investment farms, minus debts related to those same investments, 
businesses, and/or investment farms. When calculating net worth, use 0 for 
investments or properties with a negative value. 
Investments include real estate (do not include the home in which you live), 
rental property (includes a unit within a family home that has its own entrance, 
kitchen, and bath rented to someone other than a family member), trust funds, 
UGMA and UTMA accounts, money market funds, mutual funds, certificates 
of deposit, stocks, stock options, bonds, other securities, installment and land 
sale contracts (including mortgages held), commodities, etc.
Investments also include qualified education benefits or education savings 
accounts such as Coverdell savings accounts, 529 college savings plans, and the 
refund value of 529 prepaid tuition plans. If the student is required to report parent 
information on the FAFSA form, parents should not report the value of education 
savings accounts for other children. Qualified education benefits or education 
savings accounts must be reported as an asset of the parent if the student is 
required to report parent information. If the student is not required to report parent 
information on the FAFSA form, the education benefit or savings account is reported 
as an asset of the student. UGMA and UTMA accounts are considered the assets 
of the student and must be reported as an asset of the student on the FAFSA form, 
regardless of whether the student is required to report parent information.
Investments do not include  the home you live in, the value of life insurance, 
ABLE accounts, retirement plans (401[k] plans, pension funds, annuities, non-
education IRAs, Keogh plans, etc.), or cash, savings, and checking accounts 
reported in the previous question. 
Investments also do not include  UGMA/UTMA accounts for which the student 
is the custodian but not the owner or the value of qualified education benefits 
or education savings accounts that are for the benefit of the parent’s other 
children (not the student).
Investment value means the current balance or market value of these 
investments as of today. Investment debt means only those debts that are 
related to the investments. 
Businesses and investment farms include  businesses that you own (including 
a small or family-run business) or income-producing farms that you own (including 
the fair market value of land, buildings, livestock, unharvested crops, and machinery 
actively used in investment farms, agricultural, or commercial activities).
Businesses and investment farms do not include  the value of crops that 
are grown solely for consumption by the student and their family or the home in 
which you live. If the home in which you live is also located on a farm that you 
own, do not include the net value of that principal residence in the net value of 
all farm assets. The principal residence may include the home, structures, and 
land that are adjacent to the home that are not being used, stored, or sold for 
farming or other commercial activities.
Colleges – Question 23
Indicate the schools that you want to receive your FAFSA information. You can 
find federal school codes at StudentAid.gov/fafsa-apply/colleges  or by calling 
1-800-433-3243. If you cannot obtain a code, write in the complete name, address, 
city, and state of the college. If you want more schools to receive your FAFSA
information, read What is the FAFSA form?, on page 3. Most of the information
you included on your FAFSA form, except for the list of colleges , will be sent
to each of the colleges you listed. In addition, most of your FAFSA information,
including the list of colleges, will be sent to your state grant agency.
For federal student aid purposes, it does not matter in what order you
list your selected schools. However, the order in which you list schools
may affect your eligibility for state aid. Consult your state agency or
 for details.StudentAid.gov/order
Notes
22