UNDERGRADUATE ADMISSION

Headquartered in the most innovative place on earth, Silicon Valley, Santa Clara University blends high-tech innovation with a social consciousness grounded in the Jesuit educational tradition. Broncos are driven to build a better, kinder, more humane, and sustainable planet.

GET MORE INFORMATION

Our admission counselors are happy to answer any questions you may have.

START YOUR APPLICATION

Manage your application process seamlessly with the Common App.

VISIT SCU

SCU is open for visits! Navigate to our Campus Tours page to learn more.

ADVOCATING FOR STUDENTS

For CBO representatives, mentors to applicants, supervisors and others who would like to advocate on behalf of a student applicant.

SCU APPLICATION PORTAL

Thank you for applying to Santa Clara University, click on the button below to check the status of your application!

PREPARE TO BE PUSHED

Inspiration unfolds around us every day at Santa Clara University. Faculty and students work together, challenge each other, and grow through teamwork. Graduates thrive in every career path imaginable. Find out why SCU is the right fit for you.

FIRST-YEAR

TRANSFER

OPPORTUNITIES AWAIT

Whatever you’re searching for, you’ll find a community of students on the same quest.

DEADLINES

LIFE AT SCU

Hear from current students, faculty, and alumni in our Life Invented series.

ACADEMICS

Our people and programs enable you to build a powerful foundation, one that kick-starts your career and sends you out to lead the life you’ve imagined.

TRANSFORMING STEM EDUCATION

Explore STEM

THIS COULD BE YOUR VIEW

Beautiful, sunny, and full of opportunity.

OFFICE OF UNDERGRADUATE ADMISSION

The Undergraduate Admission Office is responsible for attracting, evaluating, and enrolling an academically strong, diverse, and socially conscious undergraduate student population in alignment with Santa Clara University’s mission, values, and enrollment goals.

Santa Clara University is a selective admission university that admits new students based on past performance, potential for future academic success, and contribution to the campus community consistent with the mission and Jesuit tradition of the University. Applicants are admitted as full-time, degree-seeking students. Santa Clara does not have a part-time undergraduate program option and does not enroll non-degree students except international non-degree students participating in an approved international partnership.

Building:
Patricia A. & Stephen C. Schott Admission and Enrollment Services
Front Desk: 408-554-4700
Fax: 408-554-5255
Email:
admission@scu.edu

The Office of Equal Opportunity and Title IX
: Santa Clara University does not discriminate in its employment practices or educational programs or activities on the basis of sex/gender. SCU also prohibits retaliation against any person opposing discrimination or participating in any discrimination investigation or complaint process internally or externally. Reports of misconduct, questions regarding Title IX, and concerns about noncompliance should be directed to
Kassandra Alberico, Director of Equal Opportunity and Title IX Coordinator
. For a complete copy of the university's policy and more information, contact the university Director of Equal Opportunity and Title IX Coordinator or the Assistant Secretary of Education within the Office for Civil Rights (OCR).

MAKE MORE THAN A LIVING. MAKE A DIFFERENCE.

Visit

Apply Now

Request Information