Our goal is to instill in students an understanding of the diverse cultural perspectives in the world today, as well as the long term patterns of change in human evolution and human societies.

We teach three of the four subfields of anthropology: biological anthropology, cultural anthropology, and archaeology. Students actively engage in learning and scholarship in ongoing faculty projects, both in local and international communities.

Santa Clara's location, on the site of a Spanish Colonial period mission as well as within the San Francisco Bay area, offers unique options for students to learn and apply anthropology outside the classroom. Students also may choose to focus on specific areas within anthropology, including three special emphases: Applied Anthropology, Archaeology, and Biological Anthropology.

ABOUT OUR PROGRAM

The Department of Anthropology offers a degree program leading to a bachelor of science in anthropology. A solid undergraduate foundation in anthropology secures the analytical skills needed to undertake professional degrees in anthropology, business, law, public health, social services, or provides a foundation for embarking on a number of other professional careers. The department also offers a minor, several emphases, and an honors thesis option.

FACULTY & STAFF

• Associate Professor Mythri  Jegathesan Cultural Anthropology, gender, labor, migration, development,plantations, SriLanka/ South Asia
Cultural Anthropology, gender, labor, migration, development,plantations, SriLanka/ South Asia

Cultural Anthropology, gender, labor, migration, development,plantations, SriLanka/ South Asia

• Academic Department Manager Jasmine Anthony

BEYOND THE CLASSROOM

Internships

Field Schools

Community Heritage Lab

Founded in 2018, the
Community Heritage Lab
is a research laboratory and teaching facility devoted to archaeology and heritage studies.

Founded in 2018, the
Community Heritage Lab
is a research laboratory and teaching facility devoted to archaeology and heritage studies.

NEWS & EVENTS

OUR STORIES

• The de Saisset’s new exhibit challenges California Mission-era narratives Through bells, maps, colonial documents, and paintings, three faculty members share their interdisciplinary perspectives on Monica Rodriguez’s new exhibit, “Californiana.”
Through bells, maps, colonial documents, and paintings, three faculty members share their interdisciplinary perspectives on Monica Rodriguez’s new exhibit, “Californiana.”

• This new app combines LiDAR-based mapping and indigenous agricultural knowledge MayanRoots was created by an interdisciplinary team using anthropological methods and 3-D mapping data to serve a small farming community in Yucatán.
MayanRoots was created by an interdisciplinary team using anthropological methods and 3-D mapping data to serve a small farming community in Yucatán.

FOLLOW US ON SOCIAL MEDIA