TYPES OF AID

There are four types of financial aid available for students at San Jose State University.
We encourage students to explore all the different opportunities to see what works
best for them.

• Grants : Federal and state grants are funds that do not require repayment. Grants vary in
                     eligibility criteria and award amounts.
• Loans : Loans are funds that must be repaid. There are federally regulated loan programs
                     available to help students finance their education.
• Scholarships : Scholarships are awards that do not require repayment. There are SJSU campus scholarships,
                     department scholarships, and private scholarships available.
• Work-Study : The Federal Work-Study program gives you the opportunity to work part-time while
                     going to school.
Video not supported.

AWARD SEQUENCE

It is the policy of the Financial Aid and Scholarship Office to first award all grant
or scholarship aid for which a student may be eligible.

If a student still has an unmet need or the student is not eligible for any grants
or scholarships, either loans or work-study or a combination thereof will be awarded
according to the student's preference as indicated on the FAFSA.

If a student is not eligible for any federal or state aid including subsidized loans
or work-study, the student may apply for a
Direct Unsubsidized Stafford Loan
. Additionally, parents of dependent students may apply for a Federal
Direct Plus (Parent) Loan.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

• Awards are contingent upon funding availability. If funds are insufficient to meet
                     the needs of all eligible aid applicants, San Jose State University reserves the right
                     to reduce all financial aid awards.
• Students who are auditing classes or taking classes for "no credit" are not eligible
                     for any financial aid towards those registration fees.
• For more information about the Financial Aid process at SJSU, see the Seven Steps to Financial Aid web page.