STUDENT FORMS

The California Student Aid Commission (CSAC) requires the completion of the Cal Grant Transfer Entitlement Certification through
WebGrants 4 Students
to verify your eligibility to receive a Transfer Entitlement Cal Grant award. Failure to certify will adversely impact your ability to be considered for the Transfer Entitlement Cal Grant. Please see the below User Guide for step by step instructions. If you are unable to certify…

The California Student Aid Commission (CSAC) requires the certification of high school graduation through WebGrants 4 Students to confirm your eligibility to receive a High School Entitlement Cal Grant award. Failure to certify will adversely impact your ability to be considered for the High School Entitlement Cal Grant. Please see the below User Guide for step by step instructions. If you are unable to certify through WebGrants 4 Students due to a technologic…

Complete this form to notify the California Student Aid Commission of changes in your name, address, Social Security number, your school of attendance, or to request a leave of absence, program change or program withdrawal. You can make school changes, address changes and leave of absence requests on-line at WebGrants for Students.

G-10 Grant Record Change Form for Student…

If you are a Cal Grant recipient and have been called to active military duty, are entering military service, Peace Corps or VISTA, you may apply for a deferment for your Cal Grant for up to three years. Send the completed form along with a copy of your orders to the California Student Aid Commission.
Military Deferment Request Cal Grant Programs

Complete this form AFTER submitting a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) or a California Dream Act Application (CADAA) to notify the California Student Aid Commission (CSAC) that you are a qualifying dependent or spouse of an active-duty member of the United States Armed Forces who is stationed outside of California but continues to maintain California as their state of legal residence.

G-14 Milita…

If you were not eligible for a Cal Grant and you feel this was in error, you may be able to submit an appeal, depending on the rea…

Complete this G-19 form to notify the California Student Aid Commission of changes to your name or date of birth.
Dream Act Application Name/Date of Birth Change Request

Request the paper form only if you cannot access WebGrants for Students
mygrantinfo.csac.ca.gov
.

Some applicants for Entitlement Cal Grant awards are found ineligible for a Cal Grant, or have their eligibility placed on hold due to incomplete or inaccurate information provided on the FAFSA, CA Dream Act Application or Cal Grant GPA Verification. To receive further consideration, these applicants may login to…

If you wish to allow a third party access to your confidential financial or award information, please complete the form below. If you are unable to add a third party through WebGrants 4 Students due to a technological issue you may request a paper form be sent to you by emailing studentsupport@csac.ca.gov and requesting one (Please note that paper forms should only be requested as a last resort and may take 4 – 6 weeks to process).

…

Complete this form if you are enrolled in a mandatory five-year undergraduate program and are requesting additional Cal Grant A or B benefits. A mandatory five-year program is an undergraduate program which requires all participants to complete more than four years of undergraduate study to obtain their degree.
Request for Cal Grant Fifth Year Benefits

Undergraduate Cal Grant A and B recipients who plan to enroll in a teaching credential program (TCP) after they receive their bachelor's degree may be eligible for, but not entitled, to renew their Cal Grant award for an additional year. The additional year of payment is provided to students who are seeking an initial teaching credential and cannot be used for other graduate level courses of study.
…

This form is used to reprocess a student for a Cal Grant, Chafee Grant, or Middle Class Scholarship using the correct financial aid application, Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) or California Dream Act Application (CADAA).

Application Conversion Form

The California Student Aid Commission (CSAC) requires you to certify your eligibility for Student with Dependents in
WebGrants 4 Students
to receive additional funding.  If you do not certify your eligibility, it will adversely impact your ability to be considered for additional funding to help you pay your college expenses. If you are unable to certify your eligibility through WebGrants 4 Students due to a technological issu…