The Department of Sociology equips students to engage in positive social change to transform the world around them. Sociology at SCU capitalizes on the diversity of research methods and approaches that prepare students to pursue a range of professional opportunities and/or enter a number of fields of graduate study. SCU Sociology awakens the “sociological imagination” in each of us, spotlighting our collective ability to play a role in shaping both our own lives and the society we share.

ABOUT OUR PROGRAM

The Department of Sociology bachelor of science and minor expose students to ideas and foundations that prepare them to build a more humane, just, and sustainable world. In addition to the rigorous analytical research and evaluation of theoretical perspectives, our sociology curriculum is rooted in the spirit of a Jesuit education stressing competence, conscience, and compassion. Students have the option to choose from three
concentrations
to deepen their program of study. An active
internship
experience complements the liberal arts orientation of our courses, promoting sociological perspectives and insights that are applicable to their own lives, careers, and futures.
Beyond the classroom
, the department offers opportunities for students to publish their own research, present at conferences, and participate in faculty research.

16

11:1

MORE THAN 10%

OVER 50

1 NATIONAL

26%

FACULTY & STAFF

• Professor Laura Nichols Applied Sociology, Inequalities, Experiences of First-Generation and Transfer College Students
Applied Sociology, Inequalities, Experiences of First-Generation and Transfer College Students

• Academic Department Manager Jasmine Anthony 408-554-2794 | O'Connor Hall 311
408-554-2794 | O'Connor Hall 311

BEYOND THE CLASSROOM

As part of the sociology curriculum, all students will have the opportunity to participate in a sociology related internship.

Internships

The
Silicon Valley Sociological Review
, an annual research journal, provides students have an opportunity to experience how academic publishing works in addition to demonstrating their research skills.

Silicon Valley Sociological Review

Every year, the Sociology Department awards several distinct honors to its majors in recognition of their scholarship and service.

Awards and Honors

Sociology at SCU prepares students for a wide variety of careers through the development of marketable skills.

Life After SCU

NEWS & EVENTS

OUR STORIES

• Professor Cara Chiaraluce Publishes Book Becoming an Expert Caregiver published by Rutgers University Press
Becoming an Expert Caregiver
published by Rutgers University Press

• SCU Sociologists Attend PSA 2025 Students and Faculty attend Pacific Sociological Association meetings in San Francisco
Students and Faculty attend Pacific Sociological Association meetings in San Francisco

More Stories

Spring 2025 Newsletter

Fall 2024 Newsletter

LIFE AFTER SCU

QUOTES FROM ALUMNI

“My training in sociology at Santa Clara is the foundation of my career as sociology professor. The faculty in Santa Clara’s department taught me how to use data to understand a range of social phenomena, showed me how to do independent research, and helped me connect what I learned in the classroom to real-world solutions to the most pressing issues of our time. The department instilled in me Jesuit ideals that continue to guide my work: competence, conscience, and compassion.”

—TOMAS JIMENEZ (PROFESSOR IN THE DEPARTMENT OF SOCIOLOGY AND DIRECTOR OF URBAN STUDIES AT STANFORD UNIVERSITY)

“Studying sociology at Santa Clara University meant connecting theory to practice. I learned the importance of keeping one foot in the library and one foot in the gutter to solve real world problems. All my sociology professors taught me to ask good questions, systematically analyze information, and empathize with, and work alongside, the socially marginalized. They also encouraged me to go to graduate school. I am now a sociology professor who is continuing this tradition of using research, teaching, and community engagement to advance social justice.”

—JOSHUA SBICCA (ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR, DEPARTMENT OF SOCIOLOGY, COLORADO STATE UNIVERSITY)

“The research opportunities, the research assistant opportunities and the close connections with the Sociology department professors more than prepped me for graduate school where I continued to study Sociology. The professors made the classes fun, and I loved applying theories and concepts to the outside world. My experience as a sociology major continues to help me today, as I have started a nonprofit foundation that researches and benefits the cancer and grief communities.”

—GRACELYN BATEMAN, CO-FOUNDER, LUNA PEAK FOUNDATION

“Aside from the core theory and methodologies, I have learned widely applicable skills… The Sociology Department at Santa Clara provided unwavering support for any academic and career decisions I made, and gave me a great sense of community throughout my time there. I met some of my best friends, research associates and mentors through the Sociology program at Santa Clara and I am eternally grateful for all that the program has given me.”

—EMMA HMELAR ’19

“As Sociology majors, we were called to consider more than theory or methodology. It was never enough to just be articulate in our writings and conversations. The Sociology Department calls us to be excellent in our academic endeavors, so that we might use our knowledge to serve humanity with an open and true heart. It was a privilege to have studied sociology at Santa Clara University, but what I valued most from my education is the lesson that what we do with that privilege determines the content of our character.”

—LISA P. MARTINEZ, GARDEN EDUCATOR, BRONCO URBAN GARDENS AT SANTA CLARA UNIVERSITY

“I eventually found my home in the Sociology Department. The relationships I built with the professors, staff, and friends made my college experience at SCU invaluable. They taught me how to build connections with one another and the community, how to deviate from the simple yes or no questions, and think beyond the bigger picture. For anyone looking to challenge themselves and achieve more than just a degree, the Sociology department will exceed all your expectations.”

—JESSICA TRAMP ’16 (DIRECTOR OF CATERING, BON APPETIT MANAGEMENT CO. AT SANTA CLARA UNIVERSITY)

“The department has maintained its care and concern for each individual student that I experienced as an undergraduate, as well as the ability to get hands-on experience doing research and envisioning using sociology in countless fields and future careers.”

—LAURA NICHOLS ’90 (PROFESSOR OF SOCIOLOGY AT SANTA CLARA UNIVERSITY)

“My training in sociology at Santa Clara is the foundation of my career as sociology professor. The faculty in Santa Clara’s department taught me how to use data to understand a range of social phenomena, showed me how to do independent research, and helped me connect what I learned in the classroom to real-world solutions to the most pressing issues of our time. The department instilled in me Jesuit ideals that continue to guide my work: competence, conscience, and compassion.”

—TOMAS JIMENEZ (PROFESSOR IN THE DEPARTMENT OF SOCIOLOGY AND DIRECTOR OF URBAN STUDIES AT STANFORD UNIVERSITY)

FOLLOW US ON SOCIAL MEDIA

Check out our Sociology Club!

Follow the Department on LinkedIn!