RESEARCHING COLLEGES

Now’s the time to start thinking about colleges. But which ones?

Do you want a small liberal arts college on the East Coast? A big football university in the Midwest? A midsize engineering school on the West Coast?

Your college search means finding schools that line up with your interests, academic abilities, and future goals. There are thousands of schools out there, and many will be right for
you
.

Consider these six main points when thinking about your best college fit:

• Type of college Do I want a two- or four-year college? Do I want to attend a Historically Black College or University (HBCU) or Hispanic-Serving Institution (HSI)? Do I want a public or private institution?  You might be surprised to learn that they often cost the same! Learn more about the types of colleges that are out there.
Type of college
Do I want a two- or four-year college? Do I want to attend a Historically Black College or University (HBCU) or Hispanic-Serving Institution (HSI)? Do I want a public or private institution?  You might be surprised to learn that they often cost the same!

Learn more about the
types of colleges
that are out there.

• Location Do I want to be close to home or venture somewhere new? Might I want to come home on weekends or only on holidays? Keep your mind open, and try not to limit your search by distance right away.
Location
Do I want to be close to home or venture somewhere new? Might I want to come home on weekends or only on holidays? Keep your mind open, and try not to limit your search by distance right away.

• Campus setting Do I want to live and learn at a small college or a large university? Do I want to live in a dorm? If possible, it’s helpful to visit schools on your list and experience campus life firsthand.
Campus setting
Do I want to live and learn at a small college or a large university? Do I want to live in a dorm? If possible, it’s helpful to visit schools on your list and experience campus life firsthand.

• Areas of study Do I know what I want to do after college? What subjects do I enjoy in school? In college, you’ll eventually declare a major, which is the subject you’ll spend the most time studying. But don’t worry if you have no idea about this yet – you have plenty of time to figure it out!
Areas of study
Do I know what I want to do after college? What subjects do I enjoy in school? In college, you’ll eventually declare a major, which is the subject you’ll spend the most time studying. But don’t worry if you have no idea about this yet – you have plenty of time to figure it out!

• Learning environment Do I want to learn in small groups or big lectures? Would I enjoy an academic program with an emphasis on real world experience? Don’t be swayed by a school’s reputation; instead, find out if its academic style is a good fit for you .
Learning environment
Do I want to learn in small groups or big lectures? Would I enjoy an academic program with an emphasis on real world experience? Don’t be swayed by a school’s reputation; instead, find out if its academic style is a good fit for
you
.

• Cost Will I qualify for financial aid? Do I have a true handle on what college will cost my family and me? If you’re including Coalition schools on your list, you don’t have to worry about this one; they’re proven to be affordable for students!
Cost
Will I qualify for financial aid? Do I have a true handle on what college will cost my family and me? If you’re including Coalition schools on your list, you don’t have to worry about this one; they’re proven to be affordable for students!

We encourage you to check out the college landing pages in
Scoir
, because they contain a lot of good, scannable information that could help you answer these questions. And when you build your college list using
Scoir,
you can be assured that all of your Coalition choices — from small liberal arts colleges to large research universities — are committed to access, affordability, and success.

Read more:
Building a college list >

Read more:
Deciding where to apply >

Additional Resources

Explore the
benefits of applying to highly selective schools
from the Jack Kent Cooke Foundation.

Find the Best Colleges
for your needs.

Find your college fit
at BigFuture by the College Board.

EXPLORE ALL MY COALITION COUNSELOR ADVICE

See more from this category:
Exploring Colleges

DECIDING WHERE TO APPLY

BUILDING A COLLEGE LIST