ENGLISH: FROM PAGE TO DIGITAL AGE

The Department of English is the center for reading and writing at Santa Clara University. You'll work with best selling authors, ground-breaking scholars, and award winning teachers to make your mark. You’ll analyze and interpret through different lenses like race, gender, sexuality, and more. You'll go beyond the page, learning from experience through community-based coursework, internships, and independent research. We will nurture your development as a whole person, not just as a student, and encourage you to contribute to a more compassionate and equitable society.

ABOUT OUR PROGRAM

The Department of English affords students a rich undergraduate education in the liberal arts centered on literature, cultural studies, and writing. Critical, professional, or creative writing projects are integral to every course in the English major. Students and faculty in the English Department discuss and write about British, American, and global literatures, rhetoric, technical and professional communication, new media, and film. A range of theoretical approaches are used, sometimes with a focus on visual rhetoric and cultural studies. The department also offers the
Creative Writing Program
, which provides students with a coherent course of study in the writing of poetry, fiction, and creative nonfiction and the
Professional Writing Program
, which focuses on the theories, ethics, and practice of writing in industry and public contexts. The English major prepares students to read and write critically, to bring intellectual flexibility to academic and professional problems, and to enter the workforce as individuals with trained skills in analysis and self-expression.

JOIN OUR COMMUNITY OF WRITERS AND READERS

• California and the Bracero Program's Legal Implications Fellow Samuel Cao discusses his current project with the Center for Arts and Humanities
Fellow Samuel Cao discusses his current project with the Center for Arts and Humanities

• Ruby Gutierrez ’25 Empowers Youth Through Creative Writing Senior Ruby Gutierrez combined her passions for creative writing and education in a transformative REAL Program experience teaching marginalized students in Los Angeles to explore their identities and express themselves through literature.
Senior Ruby Gutierrez combined her passions for creative writing and education in a transformative REAL Program experience teaching marginalized students in Los Angeles to explore their identities and express themselves through literature.

MICHELLE BURNHAM

What Careers Can You Pursue as a Humanities Major?

What Careers Can You Pursue as a Humanities Major?

FACULTY & STAFF

• Professor and Department Chair Michelle Burnham
• Academic Department Manager Jessica Gopp 408-554-4142 | St. Joseph's Hall 209 email
408-554-4142 | St. Joseph's Hall 209
email

• Meditating Behind Bars: Poetry, Mindfulness, and Bilingual Storytelling at SCU and Beyond Professor Juan Velasco-Moreno Leads SCU Students in Developing Buddhist Mindfulness YouTube Content for Incarcerated Individuals.
Professor Juan Velasco-Moreno Leads SCU Students in Developing Buddhist Mindfulness YouTube Content for Incarcerated Individuals.

• Five questions with … Danielle Fuentes Morgan A window into how scholarship at SCU connects academic excellence with a commitment to the common good.
A window into how scholarship at SCU connects academic excellence with a commitment to the common good.

BEYOND THE CLASSROOM

NEWS & EVENTS

• Five questions with … Danielle Fuentes Morgan A window into how scholarship at SCU connects academic excellence with a commitment to the common good.
A window into how scholarship at SCU connects academic excellence with a commitment to the common good.

• Meditating Behind Bars: Poetry, Mindfulness, and Bilingual Storytelling at SCU and Beyond Professor Juan Velasco-Moreno Leads SCU Students in Developing Buddhist Mindfulness YouTube Content for Incarcerated Individuals.
Professor Juan Velasco-Moreno Leads SCU Students in Developing Buddhist Mindfulness YouTube Content for Incarcerated Individuals.

• Celebrating Professor McIsaac’s Wins and Jumping Into the World of Flash Fiction! An interview with Professor Claudia McIsaac
An interview with Professor Claudia McIsaac

LIFE AFTER SCU

An interview with English Department alum Teresa Contino ’23 on her experiences this past year as a Fulbright Scholar in Náchod, Czech Republic

Fulbright Scholar Octavio De Leon ‘23 on Connecting with the U.S. Ambassador to Mexico