CASH FOR COLLEGE ONLINE WEBINARS

Our
free Cash for College webinars
can help you get started on your
Free Application for Federal Student Aid
(FAFSA)
or
CA Dream Act Application
(CADAA)
!

• Presentations hosted by financial aid experts from CSAC Blue/Gold webinars: 60-minute presentation covering information related to FAFSA and CADAA applications
• Blue/Gold webinars: 60-minute presentation covering information related to FAFSA and CADAA applications
• Live Q&A session to answer your questions Magenta webinars: 60-minute live Q&A session to answer your questions. Direct financial aid application assistance in virtual breakout rooms
• Magenta webinars: 60-minute live Q&A session to answer your questions. Direct financial aid application assistance in virtual breakout rooms
• View our Frequently Asked Questions below!

• Select a Highlighted Date on the calendar
• Confirm Session Details such as time and language
• Complete Your Registration via Zoom for free!
🔵
Blue
– Webinars in English ✨
Gold
– Webinars with Interpreters 🟥
Magenta
– Webinars with Office Hours

ARE THERE WEBINARS IN SPANISH OR OTHER LANGUAGES?

Yes! Some webinars are offered in Spanish, Mandarin, and other languages. Look for gold-highlighted dates on the calendar and check the registration page for details.
English-speakers are also welcome to join any gold-highlighted sessions!

ARE THERE IN-PERSON OPTIONS IF I CAN'T JOIN AN ONLINE WEBINAR?

Yes!
Visit our Cash for College workshop site
to find in-person workshops near you. CSAC trains and partners with schools and community organizations across California.

WHO ARE THESE WEBINARS FOR? DO I NEED ANYTHING TO JOIN?

Our free webinars are targeted towards high school seniors and college undergraduate students who are applying for financial aid, but everyone is welcome to learn more about the financial aid application process!
If you'd like to start or work on your application during the webinar, you may want to have the following information with you!
Click here to view our to-do list PDF.

WHAT IS A WEBINAR WITH OFFICE HOURS?

A webinar with office hours consists of a short presentation followed by an opportunity for you and your parent contributor(s) to be in a virtual break out room so you can directly ask a financial aid expert regarding your FAFSA or CA Dream Act Application (CADAA). The 30-minute presentation will briefly go over financial aid programs (e.g., Cal Grant, Middle Class Scholarship, Golden State Teacher Grant, CA Chafee Grant for Foster Youth, CA Dream Act Service Incentive Grant, Cal-HBCU Transfer Grant, etc.).

For the 2025-26 academic year, it will be helpful to have tax returns from 2024
if you, the student, as well as your parent(s) filed your taxes.

If you're a
CA Dream Act Application (CADAA)
filer, please have your application open and have your questions ready!
If you're a
FAFSA
filer, please ensure your
StudentAid.Gov account
is set up so we can assist you with your application.

HOW CAN I LEARN MORE ABOUT HOW FINANCIAL AID WORKS?

Visit our
how to apply page
to learn about FAFSA vs CADAA, the types of financial aid available, and what to do after submitting your application!
If you are undocumented, get started with our guide for
undocumented students
. If your parents (or spouse) are undocumented, view our page for
mixed-status families
.

HOW IS STUDENT DATA PROTECTED?

The California Student Aid Commission and California public institutions of higher education have a duty to protect student data, regardless of immigration status.

Laws that Protect Undocumented Student Data Privacy
First, the Family and Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), 20 U.S.C. Section 1232(g), with narrow exception, strictly prohibits agencies who possess student Personally Identifiable Information (PII) from releasing student data.2 Second, California has clear Sanctuary law. Senate Bill No. 54 (SB 54), a.k.a. the California Values Act (2017), mandated that the California Attorney General publish Model Policies to assist California colleges and universities, K-12 schools, and other entities in responding to immigration issues. The guidance centers on “limiting assistance with immigration enforcement to the fullest extent possible consistent with federal and state law at public schools . . . and ensuring that they remain safe and accessible to all California residents, regardless of immigration status.” California Government Code Section 7284.8(a). The Model Policies also provide guidance on how to gather and handle student information and how to respond to law enforcement requests to access student records for immigration enforcement purposes (this includes ICE, CBP, and any other law enforcement agency).3 SB 54 further required that public schools implement the Model Policies, or equivalent policies, and encouraged the UC and all other organizations and entities that provide postsecondary education to adopt the model policies. The deadline for implementation was March 1, 2019.

The Judicial Subpoena
In light of laws strictly prohibiting information sharing to immigration agencies, the only scenario in which a request for student data demands a response is under a judicial order or subpoena. However, an agency or institution can, and likely should, legally challenge such a request on grounds including improper purpose, insufficient specificity, or Fourth Amendment violation, among others.

Conclusion
In conclusion, there is no federal or state legal requirement to provide information to officers engaged in immigration enforcement, DHS, ICE, or any other agency within DHS, without a judicial subpoena or court order, and doing so would violate state and federal data privacy law. CSAC fully complies with data privacy law and policy, and promises to protect all student data, regardless of immigration status.

WHO CAN I CONTACT FOR HELP?

If you have questions about financial aid, call the CSAC Student Support unit toll free at
888-224-7268
, Monday through Thursday, 8:30 AM - 4:00 PM, Friday, 8:30 AM to 3:00 PM, or e-mail
Studentsupport@csac.ca.gov
.

If you have specific questions about Cash for College, email us at
cashforcollege@csac.ca.gov
.

You can also contact your
local Cal-SOAP Program
or
Regional Coordinating Organization (RCO)
.

Share this page

• facebook
• twitter
• linked in
Related links