UNDOCUMENTED STUDENTS

Welcome to your ultimate guide to navigating higher education as an undocumented student in California!
We know this journey can feel overwhelming, but the California Student Aid Commission (CSAC) offers the best financial aid opportunities for undocumented students in the nation, and we’re prepared to help you every step of the way!
Together, we’ll navigate the resources and support systems designed just for you.

YOUR SAFETY AND PRIVACY IS CSAC’S PRIORITY
We understand your concerns about sharing personal information and applying for government aid. Please know that any information you provide on a CA Dream Act Application (CADAA) is only used to determine eligibility for state financial aid
. Your information is never shared with the federal government or used for immigration enforcement.
Read more about how CSAC protects undocumented student data.

Education isn’t just a dream-- it’s a real opportunity and investment in your future!

Undocumented individuals in California who graduate college or complete a trade or certification program can significantly increase their earning potential compared to those with only a high school diploma.
CSAC helps thousands of undocumented students every year, and we’re excited to guide you on your path to success too!

Sometimes it helps to hear from others who have been through similar obstacles.
Watch these success stories from students who are now thriving after struggling to decide if college was worth it and being the first in their family to attend college!

Whether you’re aiming for college, trade school, or a certification program, California has the resources to help you achieve it.
Financial aid can help cover not only your tuition, but other costs and living expenses such as rent, food, transportation, and books.
Your gateway to accessing this financial aid is applying through either the
Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA)
or the
CA Dream Act Application (CADAA)
, depending on your eligibility.
Because undocumented students cannot receive federal aid or apply for FAFSA, CSAC created an alternative, the
CA Dream Act Application (CADAA)!
The CADAA opens doors to state and institutional financial aid programs and opportunities
. With the CADAA, undocumented students and eligible non-immigrants may qualify for a variety of grants, scholarships, and loans.

Learn more about financial aid programs for undocumented students!

Finding out if you’re eligible may be simpler than you think! The CADAA is for undocumented students in California who don't qualify for FAFSA and plan to attend a college in California.
Here are the basic requirements:

• You are undocumented (Or have a U-Visa or Temporary Protected Status)
• You do not qualify for the FAFSA (Not a US citizen or eligible non-citizen )
• You attended 3+ years of school in California + graduated from a California high school (or equivalent) ( AB 540 )
• You will be registering or enrolling at a qualifying California college
• NEW! Students from Mixed-Status Families : U.S. citizens or eligible noncitizens whose parent(s) or spouse are undocumented

AB 540 Nonresident Tuition Exemption
AB540 exempts undocumented students from paying nonresident tuition (higher than resident tuition) and/or allows them to apply and receive state aid at certain California public and private colleges.

Consider your education history in California to see if you meet the requirements for the
Non-Resident Tuition Exemption (AB 540)
:

1. Time and Coursework:
3 years total attendance at a California high school and/or California elementary/secondary school
Alternative: Attendance at a California community college or adult school can count towards the 3 years.

2. Graduation or Degree:
Graduation from a California high school
Alternative: Earning a GED, Associate’s degree from a California community college, or meeting the transfer requirements from a California community college to a UC or CSU campus can count as an equivalent.

Learn more about the complete AB 540 eligibility requirements for all circumstances!

Even now that you understand what the CADAA is and that you may be eligible to apply, it can still feel overwhelming getting started. You're not alone, our team is here to help! Join one of our free Cash for College workshops hosted by financial aid experts from CSAC and other partners.
We can guide you through the entire process and answer all of your questions!
Register for free today!
Both
online webinars
and
in-person workshops near you
are available year round!

Learn more about Cash for College!