The Department of Political Science offers a degree program leading to the bachelor of science in political science. The department introduces students to the analysis of political behavior, values, institutions, and governments. It also offers preparation for various graduate and professional studies and for careers in public service, education, and the private sector.

ABOUT OUR PROGRAM

The Political Science Department blends traditional academic coursework with experiential learning opportunities like public and private sector internships, study abroad, and a Washington Semester Program where SCU students combine classroom learning with work at places like the Justice Department, international NGOs, Congress, and elsewhere.

Academic Program

• Valedictorian Grace Davis ’25 believes social advocacy is a love letter to your community Learn how her Catholic upbringing inspired her social justice leadership and LGBTQ+ activism
Learn how her Catholic upbringing inspired her social justice leadership and LGBTQ+ activism

• Santa Clara Senior Awarded 2025 Fulbright; Two Alumnae Named Alternates Ariana Yamasaki ’25 will teach English in Germany beginning this fall.
Ariana Yamasaki ’25
will teach English in Germany beginning this fall.

FACULTY & STAFF

• Professor Elsa Y. Chen Elsa Chen teaches American politics, public policy, and research methods. Her research focuses on criminal justice sentencing policy, including racial and ethnic disparities in sentencing outcomes and the effects of mandatory minimum sentencing policies, the implementation of sentencing reform, criminal record expungement, and prisoner reentry.
Elsa Chen teaches American politics, public policy, and research methods. Her research focuses on criminal justice sentencing policy, including racial and ethnic disparities in sentencing outcomes and the effects of mandatory minimum sentencing policies, the implementation of sentencing reform, criminal record expungement, and prisoner reentry.

• Academic Department Manager Pam Doherty 408-554-4508 | Vari Hall Floor 2
408-554-4508 | Vari Hall Floor 2

• The New Narrative A short documentary about the work Naomi Levy did last summer in collaboration with Oakland's Department of Violence Prevention has been released by the Possibility Lab.
A short documentary about the work Naomi Levy did last summer in collaboration with Oakland's Department of Violence Prevention has been released by the Possibility Lab.

• Believing in Second Chances Professor Elsa Chen leads a team of student researchers in studying the life-changing impact of new automatic expungement laws.
Professor Elsa Chen leads a team of student researchers in studying the life-changing impact of new automatic expungement laws.

BEYOND THE CLASSROOM

INTERNSHIPS AND FELLOWSHIPS

Washington Semester

Panetta Institute for Public Policy

Eric Hanson Alumni Speaker Series

Stover-Mann Public Service Internship

NEWS & EVENTS

OUR STORIES

• How the REAL Program Helped Camille Follante ’27 Turn Learning Into Action Political science and gender and sexuality studies double major Camille Follante ’27 spent her summer turning classroom questions into real-world action. Supported by SCU’s REAL Program, she worked with a women-led humanitarian organization to challenge dominant narratives and support communities through research and storytelling.
Political science and gender and sexuality studies double major Camille Follante ’27 spent her summer turning classroom questions into real-world action. Supported by SCU’s REAL Program, she worked with a women-led humanitarian organization to challenge dominant narratives and support communities through research and storytelling.

• Santa Clara University Model United Nations 2025 Engaged learning with a commitment toward Sustainable Development
Engaged learning with a commitment toward Sustainable Development

FOLLOW US ON SOCIAL MEDIA

SCU POLITICAL SCIENCE

ACROPOLIS

Political Science Alumni Network

SCU PRELAW ADVISING NETWORK

SCU IMPACT

Political Science Students Association